  To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:  Berkshire's loss in net worth during 2001 was $3.77 billion, which decreased the pershare book value of both our Class A and Class B stock by 6.2%. Over the last 37 years (that is, since present management took over) pershare book value has grown from $19 to $37,920, a rate of 22.6% compounded annually.All figures used in this report apply to Berkshire's A shares, the successor to the only stock that the company had outstanding before 1996. The B shares have an economic interest equal to 1/30th that of the A. Pershare intrinsic grew somewhat faster than book value during these 37 years, and in 2001 it probably decreased a bit less. We explain intrinsic value in our Owner's Manual, which begins on page 62. I urge new shareholders to read this manual to become familiar with Berkshire's key economic principles.

     Two years ago, reporting on 1999, I said that we had experienced both the worst absolute and relative performance in our history. I added that "relative results are what concern us," a viewpoint I've had since forming my first investment partnership on May 5, 1956. Meeting with my seven founding limited partners that evening, I gave them a short paper titled "The Ground Rules" that included this sentence: "Whether we do a good job or a poor job is to be measured against the general experience in securities." We initially used the Dow Jones Industrials as our benchmark, but shifted to the S&P 500 when that index became widely used. Our comparative record since 1965 is chronicled on the facing page; last year Berkshire's advantage was 5.7 percentage points.

     Some people disagree with our focus on relative figures, arguing that "you can't eat relative performance." But if you expect ? as Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman, and I do ? that owning the S&P 500 will produce reasonably satisfactory results over time, it follows that, for longterm investors, gaining small advantages annually over that index must prove rewarding. Just as you can eat well throughout the year if you own a profitable, but highly seasonal, business such as See's (which loses considerable money during the summer months) so, too, can you regularly feast on investment returns that beat the averages, however variable the absolute numbers may be.

     Though our corporate performance last year was satisfactory, my performance was anything but. I manage most of Berkshire's equity portfolio, and my results were poor, just as they have been for several years. Of even more importance, I allowed General Re to take on business without a safeguard I knew was important, and on September 11th, this error caught up with us. I'll tell you more about my mistake later and what we are doing to correct it.

     Another of my 1956 Ground Rules remains applicable: "I cannot promise results to partners." But Charlie and I can promise that your economic result from Berkshire will parallel ours during the period of your ownership: We will not take cash compensation, restricted stock or option grants that would make our results superior to yours.

     Additionally, I will keep well over 99% of my net worth in Berkshire. My wife and I have never sold a share nor do we intend to. Charlie and I are disgusted by the situation, so common in the last few years, in which shareholders have suffered billions in losses while the CEOs, promoters, and other higherups who fathered these disasters have walked away with extraordinary wealth. Indeed, many of these people were urging investors to buy shares while concurrently dumping their own, sometimes using methods that hid their actions. To their shame, these business leaders view shareholders as patsies, not partners.

     Though Enron has become the symbol for shareholder abuse, there is no shortage of egregious conduct elsewhere in corporate America. One story I've heard illustrates the alltoocommon attitude of managers toward owners: A gorgeous woman slinks up to a CEO at a party and through moist lips purrs, "I'll do anything ? anything ? you want. Just tell me what you would like." With no hesitation, he replies, "Reprice my options."

     One final thought about Berkshire: In the future we won't come close to replicating our past record. To be sure, Charlie and I will strive for aboveaverage performance and will not be satisfied with less. But two conditions at Berkshire are far different from what they once were: Then, we could often buy businesses and securities at much lower valuations than now prevail; and more important, we were then working with far less money than we now have. Some years back, a good $10 million idea could do wonders for us (witness our investment in Washington Post in 1973 or GEICO in 1976). Today, the combination of ten such ideas and a triple in the value of each would increase the net worth of Berkshire by only ? of 1%. We need "elephants" to make significant gains now ? and they are hard to find.

     On the positive side, we have as fine an array of operating managers as exists at any company. (You can read about many of them in a new book by Robert P. Miles: The Warren Buffett CEO.) In large part, moreover, they are running businesses with economic characteristics ranging from good to superb. The ability, energy and loyalty of these managers is simply extraordinary. We now have completed 37 Berkshire years without having a CEO of an operating business elect to leave us to work elsewhere.

     Our starstudded group grew in 2001. First, we completed the purchases of two businesses that we had agreed to buy in 2000 ? Shaw and Johns Manville. Then we acquired two others, MiTek and XTRA, and contracted to buy two more: LarsonJuhl, an acquisition that has just closed, and Fruit of the Loom, which will close shortly if creditors approve our offer. All of these businesses are led by smart, seasoned and trustworthy CEOs.

     Additionally, all of our purchases last year were for cash, which means our shareholders became owners of these additional businesses without relinquishing any interest in the fine companies they already owned. We will continue to follow our familiar formula, striving to increase the value of the excellent businesses we have, adding new businesses of similar quality, and issuing shares only grudgingly.

Acquisitions of 2001

     A few days before last year's annual meeting, I received a heavy package from St. Louis, containing an unprepossessing chunk of metal whose function I couldn't imagine. There was a letter in the package, though, from Gene Toombs, CEO of a company called MiTek. He explained that MiTek is the world's leading producer of this thing I'd received, a "connector plate," which is used in making roofing trusses. Gene also said that the U.K. parent of MiTek wished to sell the company and that Berkshire seemed to him the ideal buyer. Liking the sound of his letter, I gave Gene a call. It took me only a minute to realize that he was our kind of manager and MiTek our kind of business. We made a cash offer to the U.K. owner and before long had a deal.

     Gene's managerial crew is exceptionally enthusiastic about the company and wanted to participate in the purchase. Therefore, we arranged for 55 members of the MiTek team to buy 10% of the company, with each putting up a minimum of $100,000 in cash. Many borrowed money so they could participate.

     As they would not be if they had options, all of these managers are true owners. They face the downside of decisions as well as the upside. They incur a cost of capital. And they can't "reprice" their stakes: What they paid is what they live with.

     Charlie and I love the highgrade, truly entrepreneurial attitude that exists at MiTek, and we predict it will be a winner for all involved. In early 2000, my friend, Julian Robertson, announced that he would terminate his investment partnership, Tiger Fund, and that he would liquidate it entirely except for four large holdings. One of these was XTRA, a leading lessor of truck trailers. I then called Julian, asking whether he might consider selling his XTRA block or whether, for that matter, the company's management might entertain an offer for the entire company. Julian referred me to Lew Rubin, XTRA's CEO. He and I had a nice conversation, but it was apparent that no deal was to be done.

     Then in June 2001, Julian called to say that he had decided to sell his XTRA shares, and I resumed conversations with Lew. The XTRA board accepted a proposal we made, which was to be effectuated through a tender offer expiring on September 11th. The tender conditions included the usual "out," allowing us to withdraw if the stock market were to close before the offer's expiration. Throughout much of the 11th, Lew went through a particularly wrenching experience: First, he had a soninlaw working in the World Trade Center who couldn't be located; and second, he knew we had the option of backing away from our purchase. The story ended happily: Lew's soninlaw escaped serious harm, and Berkshire completed the transaction.

     Trailer leasing is a cyclical business but one in which we should earn decent returns over time. Lew brings a new talent to Berkshire, and we hope to expand in leasing.

  On December 3rd, I received a call from Craig Ponzio, owner of LarsonJuhl, the U.S. leader in custommade picture frames. Craig had bought the company in 1981 (after first working at its manufacturing plant while attending college) and thereafter increased its sales from $3 million to $300 million. Though I had never heard of LarsonJuhl before Craig's call, a few minutes talk with him made me think we would strike a deal. He was straightforward in describing the business, cared about who bought it, and was realistic as to price. Two days later, Craig and Steve McKenzie, his CEO, came to Omaha and in ninety minutes we reached an agreement. In ten days we had signed a contract.

     LarsonJuhl serves about 18,000 framing shops in the U.S. and is also the industry leader in Canada and much of Europe. We expect to see opportunities for making complementary acquisitions in the future.   As I write this letter, creditors are considering an offer we have made for Fruit of the Loom. The company entered bankruptcy a few years back, a victim both of too much debt and poor management. And, a good many years before that, I had some Fruit of the Loom experience of my own.

     In August 1955, I was one of five employees, including two secretaries, working for the three managers of GrahamNewman Corporation, a New York investment company. GrahamNewman controlled Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron ("P&R"), an anthracite producer that had excess cash, a tax loss carryforward, and a declining business. At the time, I had a significant portion of my limited net worth invested in P&R shares, reflecting my faith in the business talents of my bosses, Ben Graham, Jerry Newman and Howard (Micky) Newman.

     This faith was rewarded when P&R purchased the Union Underwear Company from Jack Goldfarb for $15 million. Union (though it was then only a licensee of the name) produced Fruit of the Loom underwear. The company possessed $5 million in cash ? $2.5 million of which P&R used for the purchase ? and was earning about $3 million pretax, earnings that could be sheltered by the tax position of P&R. And, oh yes: Fully $9 million of the remaining $12.5 million due was satisfied by noninterestbearing notes, payable from 50% of any earnings Union had in excess of $1 million. (Those were the days; I get goosebumps just thinking about such deals.)

     Subsequently, Union bought the licensor of the Fruit of the Loom name and, along with P&R, was merged into Northwest Industries. Fruit went on to achieve annual pretax earnings exceeding $200 million.

     John Holland was responsible for Fruit's operations in its most bountiful years. In 1996, however, John retired, and management loaded the company with debt, in part to make a series of acquisitions that proved disappointing. Bankruptcy followed. John was then rehired, and he undertook a major reworking of operations. Before John's return, deliveries were chaotic, costs soared and relations with key customers deteriorated. While correcting these problems, John also reduced employment from a bloated 40,000 to 23,000. In short, he's been restoring the old Fruit of the Loom, albeit in a much more competitive environment.

     Stepping into Fruit's bankruptcy proceedings, we made a proposal to creditors to which we attached no financing conditions, even though our offer had to remain outstanding for many months. We did, however, insist on a very unusual proviso: John had to be available to continue serving as CEO after we took over. To us, John and the brand are Fruit's key assets.

     I was helped in this transaction by my friend and former boss, Micky Newman, now 81. What goes around truly does come around.

 Our operating companies made several "bolton" acquisitions during the year, and I can't resist telling you about one. In December, Frank Rooney called to tell me H.H. Brown was buying the inventory and trademarks of Acme Boot for $700,000.

     That sounds like small potatoes. But ? would you believe it? ? Acme was the second purchase of P&R, an acquisition that took place just before I left GrahamNewman in the spring of 1956. The price was $3.2 million, part of it again paid with noninterest bearing notes, for a business with sales of $7 million.

     After P&R merged with Northwest, Acme grew to be the world's largest bootmaker, delivering annual profits many multiples of what the company had cost P&R. But the business eventually hit the skids and never recovered, and that resulted in our purchasing Acme's remnants.

     In the frontispiece to Security Analysis, Ben Graham and Dave Dodd quoted Horace: "Many shall be restored that now are fallen and many shall fall that are now in honor." Fiftytwo years after I first read those lines, my appreciation for what they say about business and investments continues to grow. In addition to bolton acquisitions, our managers continually look for ways to grow internally. In that regard, here's a postscript to a story I told you two years ago about R.C. Willey's move to Boise. As you may remember, Bill Child, R.C. Willey's chairman, wanted to extend his homefurnishings operation beyond Utah, a state in which his company does more than $300 million of business (up, it should be noted, from $250,000 when Bill took over 48 years ago). The company achieved this dominant position, moreover, with a "closed on Sunday" policy that defied conventional retailing wisdom. I was skeptical that this policy could succeed in Boise or, for that matter, anyplace outside of Utah. After all, Sunday is the day many consumers most like to shop.

     Bill then insisted on something extraordinary: He would invest $11 million of his own money to build the Boise store and would sell it to Berkshire at cost (without interest!) if the venture succeeded. If it failed, Bill would keep the store and eat the loss on its disposal. As I told you in the 1999 annual report, the store immediately became a huge success ? and it has since grown.

     Shortly after the Boise opening, Bill suggested we try Las Vegas, and this time I was even more skeptical. How could we do business in a metropolis of that size and be closed on Sundays, a day that all of our competitors would be exploiting? Buoyed by the Boise experience, however, we proceeded to locate in Henderson, a mushrooming city adjacent to Las Vegas.

     The result: This store outsells all others in the R.C. Willey chain, doing a volume of business that far exceeds the volume of any competitor and that is twice what I had anticipated. I cut the ribbon at the grand opening in October ? this was after a "soft" opening and a few weeks of exceptional sales ? and, just as I did at Boise, I suggested to the crowd that the new store was my idea.

     It didn't work. Today, when I pontificate about retailing, Berkshire people just say, "What does Bill think?" (I'm going to draw the line, however, if he suggests that we also close on Saturdays.)

The Economics of Property/Casualty Insurance

     Our main business ? though we have others of great importance ? is insurance. To understand Berkshire, therefore, it is necessary that you understand how to evaluate an insurance company. The key determinants are: (1) the amount of float that the business generates; (2) its cost; and (3) most critical of all, the longterm outlook for both of these factors.

     To begin with, float is money we hold but don't own. In an insurance operation, float arises because premiums are received before losses are paid, an interval that sometimes extends over many years. During that time, the insurer invests the money. This pleasant activity typically carries with it a downside: The premiums that an insurer takes in usually do not cover the losses and expenses it eventually must pay. That leaves it running an "underwriting loss," which is the cost of float. An insurance business has value if its cost of float over time is less than the cost the company would otherwise incur to obtain funds. But the business is a lemon if its cost of float is higher than market rates for money.

     Historically, Berkshire has obtained its float at a very low cost. Indeed, our cost has been less than zero in about half of the years in which we've operated; that is, we've actually been paid for holding other people's money. Over the last few years, however, our cost has been too high, and in 2001 it was terrible.

     The table that follows shows (at intervals) the float generated by the various segments of Berkshire's insurance operations since we entered the business 35 years ago upon acquiring National Indemnity Company (whose traditional lines are included in the segment "Other Primary"). For the table we have calculated our float ? which we generate in large amounts relative to our premium volume ? by adding net loss reserves, loss adjustment reserves, funds held under reinsurance assumed and unearned premium reserves, and then subtracting insurancerelated receivables, prepaid acquisition costs, prepaid taxes and deferred charges applicable to assumed reinsurance. (Got that?)     Last year I told you that, barring a megacatastrophe, our cost of float would probably drop from its 2000 level of 6%. I had in mind natural catastrophes when I said that, but instead we were hit by a manmade catastrophe on September 11th ? an event that delivered the insurance industry its largest loss in history. Our float cost therefore came in at a staggering 12.8%. It was our worst year in float cost since 1984, and a result that to a significant degree, as I will explain in the next section, we brought upon ourselves.

     If no megacatastrophe occurs, I ? once again ? expect the cost of our float to be low in the coming year. We will indeed need a low cost, as will all insurers. Some years back, float costing, say, 4% was tolerable because government bonds yielded twice as much, and stocks prospectively offered still loftier returns. Today, fat returns are nowhere to be found (at least we can't find them) and shortterm funds earn less than 2%. Under these conditions, each of our insurance operations, save one, must deliver an underwriting profit if it is to be judged a good business. The exception is our retroactive reinsurance operation (a business we explained in last year's annual report), which has desirable economics even though it currently hits us with an annual underwriting loss of about $425 million.

Principles of Insurance Underwriting

     When property/casualty companies are judged by their cost of float, very few stack up as satisfactory businesses. And interestingly ? unlike the situation prevailing in many other industries ? neither size nor brand name determines an insurer's profitability. Indeed, many of the biggest and bestknown companies regularly deliver mediocre results. What counts in this business is underwriting discipline. The winners are those that unfailingly stick to three key principles:

They accept only those risks that they are able to properly evaluate (staying within their circle of competence) and that, after they have evaluated all relevant factors including remote loss scenarios, carry the expectancy of profit. These insurers ignore marketshare considerations and are sanguine about losing business to competitors that are offering foolish prices or policy conditions.

They limit the business they accept in a manner that guarantees they will suffer no aggregation of losses from a single event or from related events that will threaten their solvency. They ceaselessly search for possible correlation among seeminglyunrelated risks.

They avoid business involving moral risk: No matter what the rate, trying to write good contracts with bad people doesn't work. While most policyholders and clients are honorable and ethical, doing business with the few exceptions is usually expensive, sometimes extraordinarily so.

     The events of September 11th made it clear that our implementation of rules 1 and 2 at General Re had been dangerously weak. In setting prices and also in evaluating aggregation risk, we had either overlooked or dismissed the possibility of largescale terrorism losses. That was a relevant underwriting factor, and we ignored it.

     In pricing property coverages, for example, we had looked to the past and taken into account only costs we might expect to incur from windstorm, fire, explosion and earthquake. But what will be the largest insured property loss in history (after adding related businessinterruption claims) originated from none of these forces. In short, all of us in the industry made a fundamental underwriting mistake by focusing on experience, rather than exposure, thereby assuming a huge terrorism risk for which we received no premium.

     Experience, of course, is a highly useful starting point in underwriting most coverages. For example, it's important for insurers writing California earthquake policies to know how many quakes in the state during the past century have registered 6.0 or greater on the Richter scale. This information will not tell you the exact probability of a big quake next year, or where in the state it might happen. But the statistic has utility, particularly if you are writing a huge statewide policy, as National Indemnity has done in recent years.

     At certain times, however, using experience as a guide to pricing is not only useless, but actually dangerous. Late in a bull market, for example, large losses from directors and officers liability insurance ("D&O") are likely to be relatively rare. When stocks are rising, there are a scarcity of targets to sue, and both questionable accounting and management chicanery often go undetected. At that juncture, experience on highlimit D&O may look great.

     But that's just when exposure is likely to be exploding, by way of ridiculous public offerings, earnings manipulation, chainletterlike stock promotions and a potpourri of other unsavory activities. When stocks fall, these sins surface, hammering investors with losses that can run into the hundreds of billions. Juries deciding whether those losses should be borne by small investors or big insurance companies can be expected to hit insurers with verdicts that bear little relation to those delivered in bullmarket days. Even one jumbo judgment, moreover, can cause settlement costs in later cases to mushroom. Consequently, the correct rate for D&O "excess" (meaning the insurer or reinsurer will pay losses above a high threshold) might well, if based on exposure, be five or more times the premium dictated by experience.

     Insurers have always found it costly to ignore new exposures. Doing that in the case of terrorism, however, could literally bankrupt the industry. No one knows the probability of a nuclear detonation in a major metropolis this year (or even multiple detonations, given that a terrorist organization able to construct one bomb might not stop there). Nor can anyone, with assurance, assess the probability in this year, or another, of deadly biological or chemical agents being introduced simultaneously (say, through ventilation systems) into multiple office buildings and manufacturing plants. An attack like that would produce astronomical workers' compensation claims.

     Here's what we do know:

The probability of such mindboggling disasters, though likely very low at present, is not zero.

The probabilities are increasing, in an irregular and immeasurable manner, as knowledge and materials become available to those who wish us ill. Fear may recede with time, but the danger won't ? the war against terrorism can never be won. The best the nation can achieve is a long succession of stalemates. There can be no checkmate against hydraheaded foes.

Until now, insurers and reinsurers have blithely assumed the financial consequences from the incalculable risks I have described.

Under a "closetoworstcase" scenario, which could conceivably involve $1 trillion of damage, the insurance industry would be destroyed unless it manages in some manner to dramatically limit its assumption of terrorism risks. Only the U.S. Government has the resources to absorb such a blow. If it is unwilling to do so on a prospective basis, the general citizenry must bear its own risks and count on the Government to come to its rescue after a disaster occurs.

     Why, you might ask, didn't I recognize the above facts before September 11th? The answer, sadly, is that I did ? but I didn't convert thought into action. I violated the Noah rule: Predicting rain doesn't count; building arks does. I consequently let Berkshire operate with a dangerous level of risk ? at General Re in particular. I'm sorry to say that much risk for which we haven't been compensated remains on our books, but it is running off by the day.

     At Berkshire, it should be noted, we have for some years been willing to assume more risk than any other insurer has knowingly taken on. That's still the case. We are perfectly willing to lose $2 billion to $2? billion in a single event (as we did on September 11th) if we have been paid properly for assuming the risk that caused the loss (which on that occasion we weren't).

     Indeed, we have a major competitive advantage because of our tolerance for huge losses. Berkshire has massive liquid resources, substantial noninsurance earnings, a favorable tax position and a knowledgeable shareholder constituency willing to accept volatility in earnings. This unique combination enables us to assume risks that far exceed the appetite of even our largest competitors. Over time, insuring these jumbo risks should be profitable, though periodically they will bring on a terrible year.

     The bottomline today is that we will write some coverage for terroristrelated losses, including a few noncorrelated policies with very large limits. But we will not knowingly expose Berkshire to losses beyond what we can comfortably handle. We will control our total exposure, no matter what the competition does.

Insurance Operations in 2001

     Over the years, our insurance business has provided evergrowing, lowcost funds that have fueled much of Berkshire's growth. Charlie and I believe this will continue to be the case. But we stumbled in a big way in 2001, largely because of underwriting losses at General Re.

     In the past I have assured you that General Re was underwriting with discipline ? and I have been proven wrong. Though its managers' intentions were good, the company broke each of the three underwriting rules I set forth in the last section and has paid a huge price for doing so. One obvious cause for its failure is that it did not reserve correctly ? more about this in the next section ? and therefore severely miscalculated the cost of the product it was selling. Not knowing your costs will cause problems in any business. In longtail reinsurance, where years of unawareness will promote and prolong severe underpricing, ignorance of true costs is dynamite.

     Additionally, General Re was overlycompetitive in going after, and retaining, business. While all concerned may intend to underwrite with care, it is nonetheless difficult for able, harddriving professionals to curb their urge to prevail over competitors. If "winning," however, is equated with market share rather than profits, trouble awaits. "No" must be an important part of any underwriter's vocabulary.

     At the risk of sounding Pollyannaish, I now assure you that underwriting discipline is being restored at General Re (and its Cologne Re subsidiary) with appropriate urgency. Joe Brandon was appointed General Re's CEO in September and, along with Tad Montross, its new president, is committed to producing underwriting profits. Last fall, Charlie and I read Jack Welch's terrific book, Jack, Straight from the Gut (get a copy!). In discussing it, we agreed that Joe has many of Jack's characteristics: He is smart, energetic, handson, and expects much of both himself and his organization.

     When it was an independent company, General Re often shone, and now it also has the considerable strengths Berkshire brings to the table. With that added advantage and with underwriting discipline restored, General Re should be a huge asset for Berkshire. I predict that Joe and Tad will make it so.   At the National Indemnity reinsurance operation, Ajit Jain continues to add enormous value to Berkshire. Working with only 18 associates, Ajit manages one of the world's largest reinsurance operations measured by assets, and the largest, based upon the size of individual risks assumed.

     I have known the details of almost every policy that Ajit has written since he came with us in 1986, and never on even a single occasion have I seen him break any of our three underwriting rules. His extraordinary discipline, of course, does not eliminate losses; it does, however, prevent foolish losses. And that's the key: Just as is the case in investing, insurers produce outstanding longterm results primarily by avoiding dumb decisions, rather than by making brilliant ones.

     Since September 11th, Ajit has been particularly busy. Among the policies we have written and retained entirely for our own account are (1) $578 million of property coverage for a South American refinery once a loss there exceeds $1 billion; (2) $1 billion of noncancelable thirdparty liability coverage for losses arising from acts of terrorism at several large international airlines; (3) ?500 million of property coverage on a large North Sea oil platform, covering losses from terrorism and sabotage, above ?600 million that the insured retained or reinsured elsewhere; and (4) significant coverage on the Sears Tower, including losses caused by terrorism, above a $500 million threshold. We have written many other jumbo risks as well, such as protection for the World Cup Soccer Tournament and the 2002 Winter Olympics. In all cases, however, we have attempted to avoid writing groups of policies from which losses might seriously aggregate. We will not, for example, write coverages on a large number of office and apartment towers in a single metropolis without excluding losses from both a nuclear explosion and the fires that would follow it.

     No one can match the speed with which Ajit can offer huge policies. After September 11th, his quickness to respond, always important, has become a major competitive advantage. So, too, has our unsurpassed financial strength. Some reinsurers ? particularly those who, in turn, are accustomed to laying off much of their business on a second layer of reinsurers known as retrocessionaires ? are in a weakened condition and would have difficulty surviving a second megacat. When a daisy chain of retrocessionaires exists, a single weak link can pose trouble for all. In assessing the soundness of their reinsurance protection, insurers must therefore apply a stress test to all participants in the chain, and must contemplate a catastrophe loss occurring during a very unfavorable economic environment. After all, you only find out who is swimming naked when the tide goes out. At Berkshire, we retain our risks and depend on no one. And whatever the world's problems, our checks will clear.

     Ajit's business will ebb and flow ? but his underwriting principles won't waver. It's impossible to overstate his value to Berkshire.GEICO, by far our largest primary insurer, made major progress in 2001, thanks to Tony Nicely, its CEO, and his associates. Quite simply, Tony is an owner's dream.

     GEICO's premium volume grew 6.6% last year, its float grew $308 million, and it achieved an underwriting profit of $221 million. This means we were actually paid that amount last year to hold the $4.25 billion in float, which of course doesn't belong to Berkshire but can be used by us for investment.

     The only disappointment at GEICO in 2001 ? and it's an important one ? was our inability to add policyholders. Our preferred customers (81% of our total) grew by 1.6% but our standard and nonstandard policies fell by 10.1%. Overall, policies in force fell .8%.

     New business has improved in recent months. Our closure rate from telephone inquiries has climbed, and our Internet business continues its steady growth. We, therefore, expect at least a modest gain in policy count during 2002. Tony and I are eager to commit much more to marketing than the $219 million we spent last year, but at the moment we cannot see how to do so effectively. In the meantime, our operating costs are low and far below those of our major competitors; our prices are attractive; and our float is costfree and growing.  Our other primary insurers delivered their usual fine results last year. These operations, run by Rod Eldred, John Kizer, Tom Nerney, Michael Stearns, Don Towle and Don Wurster had combined premium volume of $579 million, up 40% over 2000. Their float increased 14.5% to $685 million, and they recorded an underwriting profit of $30 million. In aggregate, these companies are one of the finest insurance operations in the country, and their 2002 prospects look excellent.

"Loss Development" and Insurance Accounting

     Bad terminology is the enemy of good thinking. When companies or investment professionals use terms such as "EBITDA" and "pro forma," they want you to unthinkingly accept concepts that are dangerously flawed. (In golf, my score is frequently below par on a pro forma basis: I have firm plans to "restructure" my putting stroke and therefore only count the swings I take before reaching the green.)

     In insurance reporting, "loss development" is a widely used term ? and one that is seriously misleading. First, a definition: Loss reserves at an insurer are not funds tucked away for a rainy day, but rather a liability account. If properly calculated, the liability states the amount that an insurer will have to pay for all losses (including associated costs) that have occurred prior to the reporting date but have not yet been paid. When calculating the reserve, the insurer will have been notified of many of the losses it is destined to pay, but others will not yet have been reported to it. These losses are called IBNR, for incurred but not reported. Indeed, in some cases (involving, say, product liability or embezzlement) the insured itself will not yet be aware that a loss has occurred.

     It's clearly difficult for an insurer to put a figure on the ultimate cost of all such reported and unreported events. But the ability to do so with reasonable accuracy is vital. Otherwise the insurer's managers won't know what its actual loss costs are and how these compare to the premiums being charged. GEICO got into huge trouble in the early 1970s because for several years it severely underreserved, and therefore believed its product (insurance protection) was costing considerably less than was truly the case. Consequently, the company sailed blissfully along, underpricing its product and selling more and more policies at everlarger losses.

     When it becomes evident that reserves at past reporting dates understated the liability that truly existed at the time, companies speak of "loss development." In the year discovered, these shortfalls penalize reported earnings because the "catchup" costs from prior years must be added to currentyear costs when results are calculated. This is what happened at General Re in 2001: a staggering $800 million of loss costs that actually occurred in earlier years, but that were not then recorded, were belatedly recognized last year and charged against current earnings. The mistake was an honest one, I can assure you of that. Nevertheless, for several years, this underreserving caused us to believe that our costs were much lower than they truly were, an error that contributed to woefully inadequate pricing. Additionally, the overstated profit figures led us to pay substantial incentive compensation that we should not have and to incur income taxes far earlier than was necessary.

     We recommend scrapping the term "loss development" and its equally ugly twin, "reserve strengthening." (Can you imagine an insurer, upon finding its reserves excessive, describing the reduction that follows as "reserve weakening"?) "Loss development" suggests to investors that some natural, uncontrollable event has occurred in the current year, and "reserve strengthening" implies that adequate amounts have been further buttressed. The truth, however, is that management made an error in estimation that in turn produced an error in the earnings previously reported. The losses didn't "develop" ? they were there all along. What developed was management's understanding of the losses (or, in the instances of chicanery, management's willingness to finally fess up).

     A more forthright label for the phenomenon at issue would be "loss costs we failed to recognize when they occurred" (or maybe just "oops"). Underreserving, it should be noted, is a common ? and serious ? problem throughout the property/casualty insurance industry. At Berkshire we told you of our own problems with underestimation in 1984 and 1986. Generally, however, our reserving has been conservative.

     Major underreserving is common in cases of companies struggling for survival. In effect, insurance accounting is a selfgraded exam, in that the insurer gives some figures to its auditing firm and generally doesn't get an argument. (What the auditor gets, however, is a letter from management that is designed to take his firm off the hook if the numbers later look silly.) A company experiencing financial difficulties ? of a kind that, if truly faced, could put it out of business ? seldom proves to be a tough grader. Who, after all, wants to prepare his own execution papers?

     Even when companies have the best of intentions, it's not easy to reserve properly. I've told the story in the past about the fellow traveling abroad whose sister called to tell him that their dad had died. The brother replied that it was impossible for him to get home for the funeral; he volunteered, however, to shoulder its cost. Upon returning, the brother received a bill from the mortuary for $4,500, which he promptly paid. A month later, and a month after that also, he paid $10 pursuant to an addon invoice. When a third $10 invoice came, he called his sister for an explanation. "Oh," she replied, "I forgot to tell you. We buried dad in a rented suit."

     There are a lot of "rented suits" buried in the past operations of insurance companies. Sometimes the problems they signify lie dormant for decades, as was the case with asbestos liability, before virulently manifesting themselves. Difficult as the job may be, it's management's responsibility to adequately account for all possibilities. Conservatism is essential. When a claims manager walks into the CEO's office and says "Guess what just happened," his boss, if a veteran, does not expect to hear it's good news. Surprises in the insurance world have been far from symmetrical in their effect on earnings.

     Because of this onesided experience, it is folly to suggest, as some are doing, that all property/casualty insurance reserves be discounted, an approach reflecting the fact that they will be paid in the future and that therefore their present value is less than the stated liability for them. Discounting might be acceptable if reserves could be precisely established. They can't, however, because a myriad of forces ? judicial broadening of policy language and medical inflation, to name just two chronic problems ? are constantly working to make reserves inadequate. Discounting would exacerbate this alreadyserious situation and, additionally, would provide a new tool for the companies that are inclined to fudge.

     I'd say that the effects from telling a profitchallenged insurance CEO to lower reserves through discounting would be comparable to those that would ensue if a father told his 16yearold son to have a normal sex life. Neither party needs that kind of push.

Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table that follows shows the main sources of Berkshire's reported earnings. In this presentation, purchaseaccounting adjustments (primarily relating to "goodwill") are not assigned to the specific businesses to which they apply, but are instead aggregated and shown separately. This procedure lets you view the earnings of our businesses as they would have been reported had we not purchased them. In recent years, our "expense" for goodwill amortization has been large. Going forward, generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") will no longer require amortization of goodwill. This change will increase our reported earnings (though not our true economic earnings) and simplify this section of the report. Here are some highlights (and lowlights) from 2001 relating to our noninsurance activities:

Our shoe operations (included in "other businesses") lost $46.2 million pretax, with profits at H.H. Brown and Justin swamped by losses at Dexter.

I've made three decisions relating to Dexter that have hurt you in a major way: (1) buying it in the first place; (2) paying for it with stock and (3) procrastinating when the need for changes in its operations was obvious. I would like to lay these mistakes on Charlie (or anyone else, for that matter) but they were mine. Dexter, prior to our purchase ? and indeed for a few years after ? prospered despite lowcost foreign competition that was brutal. I concluded that Dexter could continue to cope with that problem, and I was wrong.

We have now placed the Dexter operation ? which is still substantial in size ? under the management of Frank Rooney and Jim Issler at H.H. Brown. These men have performed outstandingly for Berkshire, skillfully contending with the extraordinary changes that have bedeviled the footwear industry. During part of 2002, Dexter will be hurt by unprofitable sales commitments it made last year. After that, we believe our shoe business will be reasonably profitable.

MidAmerican Energy, of which we own 76% on a fullydiluted basis, had a good year in 2001. Its reported earnings should also increase considerably in 2002 given that the company has been shouldering a large charge for the amortization of goodwill and that this "cost" will disappear under the new GAAP rules.

Last year MidAmerican swapped some properties in England, adding Yorkshire Electric, with its 2.1 million customers. We are now serving 3.6 million customers in the U.K. and are its 2nd largest electric utility. We have an equally important operation in Iowa as well as major generating facilities in California and the Philippines.

At MidAmerican ? this may surprise you ? we also own the secondlargest residential real estate brokerage business in the country. We are marketshare leaders in a number of large cities, primarily in the Midwest, and have recently acquired important firms in Atlanta and Southern California. Last year, operating under various names that are locally familiar, we handled about 106,000 transactions involving properties worth nearly $20 billion. Ron Peltier has built this business for us, and it's likely he will make more acquisitions in 2002 and the years to come.

Considering the recessionary environment plaguing them, our retailing operations did well in 2001. In jewelry, samestore sales fell 7.6% and pretax margins were 8.9% versus 10.7% in 2000. Return on invested capital remains high.

Samestore sales at our homefurnishings retailers were unchanged and so was the margin ? 9.1% pretax ? these operations earned. Here, too, return on invested capital is excellent.

We continue to expand in both jewelry and homefurnishings. Of particular note, Nebraska Furniture Mart is constructing a mammoth 450,000 square foot store that will serve the greater Kansas City area beginning in the fall of 2003. Despite Bill Child's countersuccesses, we will keep this store open on Sundays.

The large acquisitions we initiated in late 2000 ? Shaw, Johns Manville and Benjamin Moore ? all came through their first year with us in great fashion. Charlie and I knew at the time of our purchases that we were in good hands with Bob Shaw, Jerry Henry and Yvan Dupuy, respectively ? and we admire their work even more now. Together these businesses earned about $659 million pretax.

Shortly after yearend we exchanged 4,740 Berkshire A shares (or their equivalent in B shares) for the 12.7% minority interest in Shaw, which means we now own 100% of the company. Shaw is our largest noninsurance operation and will play a big part in Berkshire's future.

All of the income shown for Flight Services in 2001 ? and a bit more ? came from FlightSafety, our pilottraining subsidiary. Its earnings increased 2.5%, though return on invested capital fell slightly because of the $258 million investment we made last year in simulators and other fixed assets. My 84yearold friend, Al Ueltschi, continues to run FlightSafety with the same enthusiasm and competitive spirit that he has exhibited since 1951, when he invested $10,000 to start the company. If I line Al up with a bunch of 60yearolds at the annual meeting, you will not be able to pick him out.

After September 11th, training for commercial airlines fell, and today it remains depressed. However, training for business and general aviation, our main activity, is at nearnormal levels and should continue to grow. In 2002, we expect to spend $162 million for 27 simulators, a sum far in excess of our annual depreciation charge of $95 million. Those who believe that EBITDA is in any way equivalent to true earnings are welcome to pick up the tab.

Our NetJets? fractional ownership program sold a record number of planes last year and also showed a gain of 21.9% in service income from management fees and hourly charges. Nevertheless, it operated at a small loss, versus a small profit in 2000. We made a little money in the U.S., but these earnings were more than offset by European losses. Measured by the value of our customers' planes, NetJets accounts for about half of the industry. We believe the other participants, in aggregate, lost significant money.

Maintaining a premier level of safety, security and service was always expensive, and the cost of sticking to those standards was exacerbated by September 11th. No matter how much the cost, we will continue to be the industry leader in all three respects. An uncompromising insistence on delivering only the best to his customers is embedded in the DNA of Rich Santulli, CEO of the company and the inventor of fractional ownership. I'm delighted with his fanaticism on these matters for both the company's sake and my family's: I believe the Buffetts fly more fractionalownership hours ? we log in excess of 800 annually ? than does any other family. In case you're wondering, we use exactly the same planes and crews that serve NetJet's other customers.

NetJets experienced a spurt in new orders shortly after September 11th, but its sales pace has since returned to normal. Percustomer usage declined somewhat during the year, probably because of the recession.

Both we and our customers derive significant operational benefits from our being the runaway leader in the fractional ownership business. We have more than 300 planes constantly on the go in the U.S. and can therefore be wherever a customer needs us on very short notice. The ubiquity of our fleet also reduces our "positioning" costs below those incurred by operators with smaller fleets.

These advantages of scale, and others we have, give NetJets a significant economic edge over competition. Under the competitive conditions likely to prevail for a few years, however, our advantage will at best produce modest profits.

Our finance and financial products line of business now includes XTRA, General Re Securities (which is in a runoff mode that will continue for an extended period) and a few other relatively small operations. The bulk of the assets and liabilities in this segment, however, arise from a few fixedincome strategies, involving highlyliquid AAA securities, that I manage. This activity, which only makes sense when certain market relationships exist, has produced good returns in the past and has reasonable prospects for continuing to do so over the next year or two.

Investments

     Below we present our common stock investments. Those that had a market value of more than $500 million at the end of 2001 are itemized.   We made few changes in our portfolio during 2001. As a group, our larger holdings have performed poorly in the last few years, some because of disappointing operating results. Charlie and I still like the basic businesses of all the companies we own. But we do not believe Berkshire's equity holdings as a group are undervalued.

     Our restrained enthusiasm for these securities is matched by decidedly lukewarm feelings about the prospects for stocks in general over the next decade or so. I expressed my views about equity returns in a speech I gave at an Allen and Company meeting in July (which was a followup to a similar presentation I had made two years earlier) and an edited version of my comments appeared in a December 10th Fortune article. I'm enclosing a copy of that article. You can also view the Fortune version of my 1999 talk at our website www.berkshirehathaway.com.

     Charlie and I believe that American business will do fine over time but think that today's equity prices presage only moderate returns for investors. The market outperformed business for a very long period, and that phenomenon had to end. A market that no more than parallels business progress, however, is likely to leave many investors disappointed, particularly those relatively new to the game.

     Here's one for those who enjoy an odd coincidence: The Great Bubble ended on March 10, 2000 (though we didn't realize that fact until some months later). On that day, the NASDAQ (recently 1,731) hit its alltime high of 5,132. That same day, Berkshire shares traded at $40,800, their lowest price since mid1997. During 2001, we were somewhat more active than usual in "junk" bonds. These are not, we should emphasize, suitable investments for the general public, because too often these securities live up to their name. We have never purchased a newlyissued junk bond, which is the only kind most investors are urged to buy. When losses occur in this field, furthermore, they are often disastrous: Many issues end up at a small fraction of their original offering price and some become entirely worthless.

     Despite these dangers, we periodically find a few ? a very few ? junk securities that are interesting to us. And, so far, our 50year experience in distressed debt has proven rewarding. In our 1984 annual report, we described our purchases of Washington Public Power System bonds when that issuer fell into disrepute. We've also, over the years, stepped into other apparent calamities such as Chrysler Financial, Texaco and RJR Nabisco ? all of which returned to grace. Still, if we stay active in junk bonds, you can expect us to have losses from time to time.

     Occasionally, a purchase of distressed bonds leads us into something bigger. Early in the Fruit of the Loom bankruptcy, we purchased the company's public and bank debt at about 50% of face value. This was an unusual bankruptcy in that interest payments on senior debt were continued without interruption, which meant we earned about a 15% current return. Our holdings grew to 10% of Fruit's senior debt, which will probably end up returning us about 70% of face value. Through this investment, we indirectly reduced our purchase price for the whole company by a small amount.

     In late 2000, we began purchasing the obligations of FINOVA Group, a troubled finance company, and that, too, led to our making a major transaction. FINOVA then had about $11 billion of debt outstanding, of which we purchased 13% at about twothirds of face value. We expected the company to go into bankruptcy, but believed that liquidation of its assets would produce a payoff for creditors that would be well above our cost. As default loomed in early 2001, we joined forces with Leucadia National Corporation to present the company with a prepackaged plan for bankruptcy.

     The plan as subsequently modified (and I'm simplifying here) provided that creditors would be paid 70% of face value (along with full interest) and that they would receive a newlyissued 7?% note for the 30% of their claims not satisfied by cash. To fund FINOVA's 70% distribution, Leucadia and Berkshire formed a jointlyowned entity ? mellifluently christened Berkadia ? that borrowed $5.6 billion through FleetBoston and, in turn, relent this sum to FINOVA, concurrently obtaining a priority claim on its assets. Berkshire guaranteed 90% of the Berkadia borrowing and also has a secondary guarantee on the 10% for which Leucadia has primary responsibility. (Did I mention that I am simplifying?).

     There is a spread of about two percentage points between what Berkadia pays on its borrowing and what it receives from FINOVA, with this spread flowing 90% to Berkshire and 10% to Leucadia. As I write this, each loan has been paid down to $3.9 billion.

     As part of the bankruptcy plan, which was approved on August 10, 2001, Berkshire also agreed to offer 70% of face value for up to $500 million principal amount of the $3.25 billion of new 7?% bonds that were issued by FINOVA. (Of these, we had already received $426.8 million in principal amount because of our 13% ownership of the original debt.) Our offer, which was to run until September 26, 2001, could be withdrawn under a variety of conditions, one of which became operative if the New York Stock Exchange closed during the offering period. When that indeed occurred in the week of September 11th, we promptly terminated the offer.

     Many of FINOVA's loans involve aircraft assets whose values were significantly diminished by the events of September 11th. Other receivables held by the company also were imperiled by the economic consequences of the attack that day. FINOVA's prospects, therefore, are not as good as when we made our proposal to the bankruptcy court. Nevertheless we feel that overall the transaction will prove satisfactory for Berkshire. Leucadia has daytoday operating responsibility for FINOVA, and we have long been impressed with the business acumen and managerial talent of its key executives.    It's d俲?vu time again: In early 1965, when the investment partnership I ran took control of Berkshire, that company had its main banking relationships with First National Bank of Boston and a large New York City bank. Previously, I had done no business with either.

     Fast forward to 1969, when I wanted Berkshire to buy the Illinois National Bank and Trust of Rockford. We needed $10 million, and I contacted both banks. There was no response from New York. However, two representatives of the Boston bank immediately came to Omaha. They told me they would supply the money for our purchase and that we would work out the details later.

     For the next three decades, we borrowed almost nothing from banks. (Debt is a fourletter word around Berkshire.) Then, in February, when we were structuring the FINOVA transaction, I again called Boston, where First National had morphed into FleetBoston. Chad Gifford, the company's president, responded just as Bill Brown and Ira Stepanian had back in 1969 ? "you've got the money and we'll work out the details later."

     And that's just what happened. FleetBoston syndicated a loan for $6 billion (as it turned out, we didn't need $400 million of it), and it was quickly oversubscribed by 17 banks throughout the world. Sooooo . . . if you ever need $6 billion, just give Chad a call ? assuming, that is, your credit is AAA.One more point about our investments: The media often report that "Buffett is buying" this or that security, having picked up the "fact" from reports that Berkshire files. These accounts are sometimes correct, but at other times the transactions Berkshire reports are actually being made by Lou Simpson, who runs a $2 billion portfolio for GEICO that is quite independent of me. Normally, Lou does not tell me what he is buying or selling, and I learn of his activities only when I look at a GEICO portfolio summary that I receive a few days after the end of each month. Lou's thinking, of course, is quite similar to mine, but we usually end up in different securities. That's largely because he's working with less money and can therefore invest in smaller companies than I. Oh, yes, there's also another minor difference between us: In recent years, Lou's performance has been far better than mine.

Charitable Contributions

     Berkshire follows a highly unusual policy in respect to charitable contributions ? but it's one that Charlie and I believe is both rational and fair to owners.

     First, we let our operating subsidiaries make their own charitable decisions, requesting only that the owners/managers who once ran these as independent companies make all donations to their personal charities from their own funds, instead of using company money. When our managers are using company funds, we trust them to make gifts in a manner that delivers commensurate tangible or intangible benefits to the operations they manage. Last year contributions from Berkshire subsidiaries totaled $19.2 million.

     At the parent company level, we make no contributions except those designated by shareholders. We do not match contributions made by directors or employees, nor do we give to the favorite charities of the Buffetts or the Mungers. However, prior to our purchasing them, a few of our subsidiaries had employeematch programs and we feel fine about their continuing them: It's not our style to tamper with successful business cultures.

     To implement our owners' charitable desires, each year we notify registered holders of A shares (A's represent 86.6% of our equity capital) of a pershare amount that they can instruct us to contribute to as many as three charities. Shareholders name the charity; Berkshire writes the check. Any organization that qualifies under the Internal Revenue Code can be designated by shareholders. Last year Berkshire made contributions of $16.7 million at the direction of 5,700 shareholders, who named 3,550 charities as recipients. Since we started this program, our shareholders' gifts have totaled $181 million.

     Most public corporations eschew gifts to religious institutions. These, however, are favorite charities of our shareholders, who last year named 437 churches and synagogues to receive gifts. Additionally, 790 schools were recipients. A few of our larger shareholders, including Charlie and me, designate their personal foundations to get gifts, so that those entities can, in turn, disburse their funds widely.

     I get a few letters every week criticizing Berkshire for contributing to Planned Parenthood. These letters are usually prompted by an organization that wishes to see boycotts of Berkshire products. The letters are invariably polite and sincere, but their writers are unaware of a key point: It's not Berkshire, but rather its owners who are making charitable decisions ? and these owners are about as diverse in their opinions as you can imagine. For example, they are probably on both sides of the abortion issue in roughly the same proportion as the American population. We'll follow their instructions, whether they designate Planned Parenthood or Metro Right to Life, just as long as the charity possesses 501(c)(3) status. It's as if we paid a dividend, which the shareholder then donated. Our form of disbursement, however, is more taxefficient.

     In neither the purchase of goods nor the hiring of personnel, do we ever consider the religious views, the gender, the race or the sexual orientation of the persons we are dealing with. It would not only be wrong to do so, it would be idiotic. We need all of the talent we can find, and we have learned that able and trustworthy managers, employees and suppliers come from a very wide spectrum of humanity.    To participate in our future charitable contribution programs, you must own Class A shares that are registered in the name of the actual owner, not the nominee name of a broker, bank or depository. Shares not so registered on August 31, 2002 will be ineligible for the 2002 program. When you get the contributions form from us, return it promptly. Designations received after the due date will not be honored.

The Annual Meeting

     This year's annual meeting will be on Saturday, May 4, and we will again be at the Civic Auditorium. The doors will open at 7 a.m., the movie will begin at 8:30, and the meeting itself will commence at 9:30. There will be a short break at noon for food. (Sandwiches can be bought at the Civic's concession stands.) Except for that interlude, Charlie and I will answer questions until 3:30. Give us your best shot.

     For at least the next year, the Civic, located downtown, is the only site available to us. We must therefore hold the meeting on either Saturday or Sunday to avoid the traffic and parking nightmare sure to occur on a weekday. Shortly, however, Omaha will have a new Convention Center with plenty of parking facilities. Assuming that we then head for the Center, I will poll shareholders to see whether you wish to return to the Monday meeting that was standard until 2000. We will decide that vote based on a count of shareholders, not shares. (This is not a system, however, we will ever institute to decide who should be CEO.)

     An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car reservations, we have again signed up American Express (8007996634) to give you special help. They do a terrific job for us each year, and I thank them for it.

     In our usual fashion, we will run buses from the larger hotels to the meeting. Afterwards, the buses will make trips back to the hotels and to Nebraska Furniture Mart, Borsheim's and the airport. Even so, you are likely to find a car useful.

     We have added so many new companies to Berkshire this year that I'm not going to detail all of the products that we will be selling at the meeting. But come prepared to carry home everything from bricks to candy. And underwear, of course. Assuming our Fruit of the Loom purchase has closed by May 4, we will be selling Fruit's latest styles, which will make you your neighborhood's fashion leader. Buy a lifetime supply.

     GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a special shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 41 of the 49 jurisdictions in which we operate. Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save you money.

     At the Omaha airport on Saturday, we will have the usual array of aircraft from NetJets? available for your inspection. Just ask a representative at the Civic about viewing any of these planes. If you buy what we consider an appropriate number of items during the weekend, you may well need your own plane to take them home. And, if you buy a fraction of a plane, we might even throw in a threepack of briefs or boxers.

     At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 75acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, we will again be having "Berkshire Weekend" pricing, which means we will be offering our shareholders a discount that is customarily given only to employees. We initiated this special pricing at NFM five years ago, and sales during the "Weekend" grew from $5.3 million in 1997 to $11.5 million in 2001.

     To get the discount, you must make your purchases on Thursday, May 2 through Monday, May 6 and also present your meeting credential. The period's special pricing will even apply to the products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against discounting but that, in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. We appreciate their cooperation. NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. on weekdays and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays.

     Borsheim's ? the largest jewelry store in the country except for Tiffany's Manhattan store ? will have two shareholderonly events. The first will be a cocktail reception from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Friday, May 3. The second, the main gala, will be from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Sunday, May 5. Shareholder prices will be available Thursday through Monday, so if you wish to avoid the large crowds that will assemble on Friday evening and Sunday, come at other times and identify yourself as a shareholder. On Saturday, we will be open until 6 p.m. Borsheim's operates on a gross margin that is fully twenty percentage points below that of its major rivals, so the more you buy, the more you save (or at least that's what my wife and daughter tell me). Come by and let us perform a walletectomy on you.

     In the mall outside of Borsheim's, we will have some of the world's top bridge experts available to play with our shareholders on Sunday afternoon. We expect Bob and Petra Hamman along with Sharon Osberg to host tables. Patrick Wolff, twice U.S. chess champion, will also be in the mall, taking on all comers ? blindfolded! Last year, Patrick played as many as six games simultaneously ? with his blindfold securely in place ? and this year will try for seven. Finally, Bill Robertie, one of only two players who have twice won the backgammon world championship, will be on hand to test your skill at that game. Come to the mall on Sunday for the Mensa Olympics.

     Gorat's ? my favorite steakhouse ? will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on Sunday, May 5, and will be serving from 4 p.m. until 10 p.m. Please remember that to come to Gorat's on Sunday, you must have a reservation. To make one, call 4025513733 on April 1 (but not before). If Sunday is sold out, try Gorat's on one of the other evenings you will be in town. Show your sophistication by ordering a rare Tbone with a double order of hash browns.

     The usual baseball game will be held at Rosenblatt Stadium at 7 p.m. on Saturday night. This year the Omaha Royals will play the Oklahoma RedHawks. Last year, in an attempt to emulate the career switch of Babe Ruth, I gave up pitching and tried batting. Bob Gibson, an Omaha native, was on the mound and I was terrified, fearing Bob's famous brushback pitch. Instead, he delivered a fast ball in the strike zone, and with a Mark McGwirelike swing, I managed to connect for a hard grounder, which inexplicably died in the infield. I didn't run it out: At my age, I get winded playing a hand of bridge.

     I'm not sure what will take place at the ballpark this year, but come out and be surprised. Our proxy statement contains instructions for obtaining tickets to the game. Those people ordering tickets to the annual meeting will receive a booklet containing all manner of information that should help you enjoy your visit in Omaha. There will be plenty of action in town. So come for Woodstock Weekend and join our Celebration of Capitalism at the Civic.  Finally, I would like to thank the wonderful and incredibly productive crew at World Headquarters (all 5,246.5 square feet of it) who make my job so easy. Berkshire added about 40,000 employees last year, bringing our workforce to 110,000. At headquarters we added one employee and now have 14.8. (I've tried in vain to get JoEllen Rieck to change her workweek from four days to five; I think she likes the national recognition she gains by being .8.)

     The smooth handling of the array of duties that come with our current size and scope ? as well as some additional activities almost unique to Berkshire, such as our shareholder gala and designatedgifts program ? takes a very special group of people. And that we most definitely have.
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.: 
Our gain in net worth during 2003 was $13.6 billion, which increased the pershare book value of 
both our Class A and Class B stock by 21%. Over the last 39 years (that is, since present management took 
over) pershare book value has grown from $19 to $50,498, a rate of 22.2% compounded annually. 

It's pershare intrinsic value that counts, however, not book value. Here, the news is good: 
Between 1964 and 2003, Berkshire morphed from a struggling northern textile business whose intrinsic 
value was less than book into a widely diversified enterprise worth far more than book. Our 39year gain 
in intrinsic value has therefore somewhat exceeded our 22.2% gain in book. (For a better understanding of 
intrinsic value and the economic principles that guide Charlie Munger, my partner and Berkshire's vicechairman, 
and me in running Berkshire, please read our Owner's Manual, beginning on page 69.) 

Despite their shortcomings, book value calculations are useful at Berkshire as a slightly 
understated gauge for measuring the longterm rate of increase in our intrinsic value. The calculation is 
less relevant, however, than it once was in rating any single year's performance versus the S&P 500 index 
(a comparison we display on the facing page). Our equity holdings, including convertible preferreds, have 
fallen considerably as a percentage of our net worth, from an average of 114% in the 1980s, for example, to 
an average of 50% in 200003. Therefore, yearly movements in the stock market now affect a much 
smaller portion of our net worth than was once the case. 

Nonetheless, Berkshire's longterm performance versus the S&P remains allimportant. Our 
shareholders can buy the S&P through an index fund at very low cost. Unless we achieve gains in pershare 
intrinsic value in the future that outdo the S&P's performance, Charlie and I will be adding nothing to 
what you can accomplish on your own. 

If we fail, we will have no excuses. Charlie and I operate in an ideal environment. To begin with, 
we are supported by an incredible group of men and women who run our operating units. If there were a 
Corporate Cooperstown, its roster would surely include many of our CEOs. Any shortfall in Berkshire's 
results will not be caused by our managers. 

Additionally, we enjoy a rare sort of managerial freedom. Most companies are saddled with 
institutional constraints. A company's history, for example, may commit it to an industry that now offers 
limited opportunity. A more common problem is a shareholder constituency that pressures its manager to 
dance to Wall Street's tune. Many CEOs resist, but others give in and adopt operating and capitalallocation 
policies far different from those they would choose if left to themselves. 

At Berkshire, neither history nor the demands of owners impede intelligent decisionmaking. 
When Charlie and I make mistakes, they are - in tennis parlance - unforced errors. 

 

Operating Earnings 

When valuations are similar, we strongly prefer owning businesses to owning stocks. During 
most of our years of operation, however, stocks were much the cheaper choice. We therefore sharply tilted 
our asset allocation in those years toward equities, as illustrated by the percentages cited earlier. 

In recent years, however, we've found it hard to find significantly undervalued stocks, a difficulty 
greatly accentuated by the mushrooming of the funds we must deploy. Today, the number of stocks that 
can be purchased in large enough quantities to move the performance needle at Berkshire is a small fraction 
of the number that existed a decade ago. (Investment managers often profit far more from piling up assets 
than from handling those assets well. So when one tells you that increased funds won't hurt his investment 
performance, step back: His nose is about to grow.) 

The shortage of attractivelypriced stocks in which we can put large sums doesn't bother us, 
providing we can find companies to purchase that (1) have favorable and enduring economic characteristics; 
(2) are run by talented and honest managers and (3) are available at a sensible price. We have 
purchased a number of such businesses in recent years, though not enough to fully employ the gusher of 
cash that has come our way. In buying businesses, I've made some terrible mistakes, both of commission 
and omission. Overall, however, our acquisitions have led to decent gains in pershare earnings. 

Below is a table that quantifies that point. But first we need to warn you that growthrate 
presentations can be significantly distorted by a calculated selection of either initial or terminal dates. For 
example, if earnings are tiny in a beginning year, a longterm performance that was only mediocre can be 
made to appear sensational. That kind of distortion can come about because the company at issue was 
minuscule in the base year - which means that only a handful of insiders actually benefited from the touted 
performance - or because a larger company was then operating at just above breakeven. Picking a terminal 
year that is particularly buoyant will also favorably bias a calculation of growth. 

The Berkshire Hathaway that present management assumed control of in 1965 had long been 
sizable. But in 1964, it earned only $175,586 or 15 cents per share, so close to breakeven that any 
calculation of earnings growth from that base would be meaningless. At the time, however, even those 
meager earnings looked good: Over the decade following the 1955 merger of Berkshire Fine Spinning 
Associates and Hathaway Manufacturing, the combined operation had lost $10.1 million and many 
thousands of employees had been let go. It was not a marriage made in heaven. 

Against this background, we give you a picture of Berkshire's earnings growth that begins in 
1968, but also includes subsequent base years spaced five years apart. A series of calculations is presented 
so that you can decide for yourself which period is most meaningful. I've started with 1968 because it was 
the first full year we operated National Indemnity, the initial acquisition we made as we began to expand 
Berkshire's business. 

I don't believe that using 2003 as the terminal year distorts our calculations. It was a terrific year 
for our insurance business, but the big boost that gave to earnings was largely offset by the pathetically low 
interest rates we earned on our large holdings of cash equivalents (a condition that will not last). All 
figures shown below, it should be noted, exclude capital gains. 




We will continue the capital allocation practices we have used in the past. If stocks become 
significantly cheaper than entire businesses, we will buy them aggressively. If selected bonds become 
attractive, as they did in 2002, we will again load up on these securities. Under any market or economic 
conditions, we will be happy to buy businesses that meet our standards. And, for those that do, the bigger 
the better. Our capital is underutilized now, but that will happen periodically. It's a painful condition to be 
in - but not as painful as doing something stupid. (I speak from experience.) 

Overall, we are certain Berkshire's performance in the future will fall far short of what it has been 
in the past. Nonetheless, Charlie and I remain hopeful that we can deliver results that are modestly above 
average. That's what we're being paid for. 

Acquisitions 

As regular readers know, our acquisitions have often come about in strange ways. None, however, 
had a more unusual genesis than our purchase last year of Clayton Homes. 

The unlikely source was a group of finance students from the University of Tennessee, and their 
teacher, Dr. Al Auxier. For the past five years, Al has brought his class to Omaha, where the group tours 
Nebraska Furniture Mart and Borsheim's, eats at Gorat's and then comes to Kiewit Plaza for a session with 
me. Usually about 40 students participate. 

After two hours of giveandtake, the group traditionally presents me with a thankyou gift. (The 
doors stay locked until they do.) In past years it's been items such as a football signed by Phil Fulmer and 
a basketball from Tennessee's famous women's team. 

This past February, the group opted for a book - which, luckily for me, was the recentlypublished 
autobiography of Jim Clayton, founder of Clayton Homes. I already knew the company to be the class act 
of the manufactured housing industry, knowledge I acquired after earlier making the mistake of buying 
some distressed junk debt of Oakwood Homes, one of the industry's largest companies. At the time of that 
purchase, I did not understand how atrocious consumerfinancing practices had become throughout most of 
the manufactured housing industry. But I learned: Oakwood rather promptly went bankrupt. 

Manufactured housing, it should be emphasized, can deliver very good value to home purchasers. 
Indeed, for decades, the industry has accounted for more than 15% of the homes built in the U.S. During 
those years, moreover, both the quality and variety of manufactured houses consistently improved. 

Progress in design and construction was not matched, however, by progress in distribution and 
financing. Instead, as the years went by, the industry's business model increasingly centered on the ability 
of both the retailer and manufacturer to unload terrible loans on naive lenders. When "securitization" then 
became popular in the 1990s, further distancing the supplier of funds from the lending transaction, the 
industry's conduct went from bad to worse. Much of its volume a few years back came from buyers who 
shouldn't have bought, financed by lenders who shouldn't have lent. The consequence has been huge 
numbers of repossessions and pitifully low recoveries on the units repossessed. 

Oakwood participated fully in the insanity. But Clayton, though it could not isolate itself from 
industry practices, behaved considerably better than its major competitors. 

Upon receiving Jim Clayton's book, I told the students how much I admired his record and they 
took that message back to Knoxville, home of both the University of Tennessee and Clayton Homes. Al 
then suggested that I call Kevin Clayton, Jim's son and the CEO, to express my views directly. As I talked 
with Kevin, it became clear that he was both able and a straightshooter. 

Soon thereafter, I made an offer for the business based solely on Jim's book, my evaluation of 
Kevin, the public financials of Clayton and what I had learned from the Oakwood experience. Clayton's 
board was receptive, since it understood that the largescale financing Clayton would need in the future 
might be hard to get. Lenders had fled the industry and securitizations, when possible at all, carried far 


more expensive and restrictive terms than was previously the case. This tightening was particularly serious 
for Clayton, whose earnings significantly depended on securitizations. 

Today, the manufactured housing industry remains awash in problems. Delinquencies continue 
high, repossessed units still abound and the number of retailers has been halved. A different business 
model is required, one that eliminates the ability of the retailer and salesman to pocket substantial money 
up front by making sales financed by loans that are destined to default. Such transactions cause hardship to 
both buyer and lender and lead to a flood of repossessions that then undercut the sale of new units. Under a 
proper model - one requiring significant down payments and shorterterm loans - the industry will likely 
remain much smaller than it was in the 90s. But it will deliver to home buyers an asset in which they will 
have equity, rather than disappointment, upon resale. 

In the "full circle" department, Clayton has agreed to buy the assets of Oakwood. When the 
transaction closes, Clayton's manufacturing capacity, geographical reach and sales outlets will be 
substantially increased. As a byproduct, the debt of Oakwood that we own, which we bought at a deep 
discount, will probably return a small profit to us. 

And the students? In October, we had a surprise "graduation" ceremony in Knoxville for the 40 
who sparked my interest in Clayton. I donned a mortarboard and presented each student with both a PhD 
(for phenomenal, hardworking dealmaker) from Berkshire and a B share. Al got an A share. If you meet 
some of the new Tennessee shareholders at our annual meeting, give them your thanks. And ask them if 
they've read any good books lately. 



In early spring, Byron Trott, a Managing Director of Goldman Sachs, told me that WalMart 
wished to sell its McLane subsidiary. McLane distributes groceries and nonfood items to convenience 
stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs, mass merchandisers, quick service restaurants, theaters and others. It's 
a good business, but one not in the mainstream of WalMart's future. It's made to order, however, for us. 

McLane has sales of about $23 billion, but operates on paperthin margins - about 1% pretax - 
and will swell Berkshire's sales figures far more than our income. In the past, some retailers had shunned 
McLane because it was owned by their major competitor. Grady Rosier, McLane's superb CEO, has 
already landed some of these accounts - he was in full stride the day the deal closed - and more will come. 

For several years, I have given my vote to WalMart in the balloting for Fortune Magazine's 
"Most Admired" list. Our McLane transaction reinforced my opinion. To make the McLane deal, I had a 
single meeting of about two hours with Tom Schoewe, WalMart's CFO, and we then shook hands. (He 
did, however, first call Bentonville). Twentynine days later WalMart had its money. We did no "due 
diligence." We knew everything would be exactly as WalMart said it would be - and it was. 

I should add that Byron has now been instrumental in three Berkshire acquisitions. He 
understands Berkshire far better than any investment banker with whom we have talked and - it hurts me to 
say this - earns his fee. I'm looking forward to deal number four (as, I am sure, is he). 

Taxes 

On May 20, 2003, The Washington Post ran an oped piece by me that was critical of the Bush tax 
proposals. Thirteen days later, Pamela Olson, Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy at the U.S. Treasury, 
delivered a speech about the new tax legislation saying, "That means a certain midwestern oracle, who, it 
must be noted, has played the tax code like a fiddle, is still safe retaining all his earnings." I think she was 
talking about me. 

Alas, my "fiddle playing" will not get me to Carnegie Hall - or even to a high school recital. 
Berkshire, on your behalf and mine, will send the Treasury $3.3 billion for tax on its 2003 income, a sum 
equaling 2.% of the total income tax paid by all U.S. corporations in fiscal 2003. (In contrast, Berkshire's 
market valuation is about 1% of the value of all American corporations.) Our payment will almost 


certainly place us among our country's top ten taxpayers. Indeed, if only 540 taxpayers paid the amount 
Berkshire will pay, no other individual or corporation would have to pay anything to Uncle Sam. That's 
right: 290 million Americans and all other businesses would not have to pay a dime in income, social 
security, excise or estate taxes to the federal government. (Here's the math: Federal tax receipts, including 
social security receipts, in fiscal 2003 totaled $1.782 trillion and 540 "Berkshires," each paying $3.3 
billion, would deliver the same $1.782 trillion.) 

Our federal tax return for 2002 (2003 is not finalized), when we paid $1.75 billion, covered a mere 
8,905 pages. As is required, we dutifully filed two copies of this return, creating a pile of paper seven feet 
tall. At World Headquarters, our small band of 15.8, though exhausted, momentarily flushed with pride: 
Berkshire, we felt, was surely pulling its share of our country's fiscal load. 

But Ms. Olson sees things otherwise. And if that means Charlie and I need to try harder, we are 
ready to do so. 

I do wish, however, that Ms. Olson would give me some credit for the progress I've already made. 
In 1944, I filed my first 1040, reporting my income as a thirteenyearold newspaper carrier. The return 
covered three pages. After I claimed the appropriate business deductions, such as $35 for a bicycle, my tax 
bill was $7. I sent my check to the Treasury and it - without comment - promptly cashed it. We lived in 
peace. 



I can understand why the Treasury is now frustrated with Corporate America and prone to 
outbursts. But it should look to Congress and the Administration for redress, not to Berkshire. 

Corporate income taxes in fiscal 2003 accounted for 7.4% of all federal tax receipts, down from a 
postwar peak of 32% in 1952. With one exception (1983), last year's percentage is the lowest recorded 
since data was first published in 1934. 

Even so, tax breaks for corporations (and their investors, particularly large ones) were a major part 
of the Administration's 2002 and 2003 initiatives. If class warfare is being waged in America, my class is 
clearly winning. Today, many large corporations - run by CEOs whose fiddleplaying talents make your 
Chairman look like he is all thumbs - pay nothing close to the stated federal tax rate of 35%. 

In 1985, Berkshire paid $132 million in federal income taxes, and all corporations paid $61 
billion. The comparable amounts in 1995 were $286 million and $157 billion respectively. And, as 
mentioned, we will pay about $3.3 billion for 2003, a year when all corporations paid $132 billion. We 
hope our taxes continue to rise in the future - it will mean we are prospering - but we also hope that the 
rest of Corporate America antes up along with us. This might be a project for Ms. Olson to work on. 

Corporate Governance 

In judging whether Corporate America is serious about reforming itself, CEO pay remains the acid 
test. To date, the results aren't encouraging. A few CEOs, such as Jeff Immelt of General Electric, have 
led the way in initiating programs that are fair to managers and shareholders alike. Generally, however, his 
example has been more admired than followed. 

It's understandable how pay got out of hand. When management hires employees, or when 
companies bargain with a vendor, the intensity of interest is equal on both sides of the table. One party's 
gain is the other party's loss, and the money involved has real meaning to both. The result is an honestto 
God negotiation. 

But when CEOs (or their representatives) have met with compensation committees, too often one 
side - the CEO's - has cared far more than the other about what bargain is struck. A CEO, for example, 
will always regard the difference between receiving options for 100,000 shares or for 500,000 as 
monumental. To a comp committee, however, the difference may seem unimportant - particularly if, as 


has been the case at most companies, neither grant will have any effect on reported earnings. Under these 
conditions, the negotiation often has a "playmoney" quality. 

Overreaching by CEOs greatly accelerated in the 1990s as compensation packages gained by the 
most avaricious- a title for which there was vigorous competition - were promptly replicated elsewhere. 
The couriers for this epidemic of greed were usually consultants and human relations departments, which 
had no trouble perceiving who buttered their bread. As one compensation consultant commented: "There 
are two classes of clients you don't want to offend - actual and potential." 

In proposals for reforming this malfunctioning system, the cry has been for "independent" 
directors. But the question of what truly motivates independence has largely been neglected. 

In last year's report, I took a look at how "independent" directors - as defined by statute - had 
performed in the mutual fund field. The Investment Company Act of 1940 mandated such directors, and 
that means we've had an extended test of what statutory standards produce. In our examination last year, 
we looked at the record of fund directors in respect to the two key tasks board members should perform - 
whether at a mutual fund business or any other. These two allimportant functions are, first, to obtain (or 
retain) an able and honest manager and then to compensate that manager fairly. 

Our survey was not encouraging. Year after year, at literally thousands of funds, directors had 
routinely rehired the incumbent management company, however pathetic its performance had been. Just as 
routinely, the directors had mindlessly approved fees that in many cases far exceeded those that could have 
been negotiated. Then, when a management company was sold - invariably at a huge price relative to 
tangible assets - the directors experienced a "counterrevelation" and immediately signed on with the new 
manager and accepted its fee schedule. In effect, the directors decided that whoever would pay the most 
for the old management company was the party that should manage the shareholders' money in the future. 

Despite the lapdog behavior of independent fund directors, we did not conclude that they are bad 
people. They're not. But sadly, "boardroom atmosphere" almost invariably sedates their fiduciary genes. 

On May 22, 2003, not long after Berkshire's report appeared, the Chairman of the Investment 
Company Institute addressed its membership about "The State of our Industry." Responding to those who 
have "weighed in about our perceived failings," he mused, "It makes me wonder what life would be like if 
we'd actually done something wrong." 

Be careful what you wish for. 

Within a few months, the world began to learn that many fundmanagement companies had 
followed policies that hurt the owners of the funds they managed, while simultaneously boosting the fees of 
the managers. Prior to their transgressions, it should be noted, these management companies were earning 
profit margins and returns on tangible equity that were the envy of Corporate America. Yet to swell profits 
further, they trampled on the interests of fund shareholders in an appalling manner. 

So what are the directors of these looted funds doing? As I write this, I have seen none that have 
terminated the contract of the offending management company (though naturally that entity has often fired 
some of its employees). Can you imagine directors who had been personally defrauded taking such a boyswill
beboys attitude? 

To top it all off, at least one miscreant management company has put itself up for sale, 
undoubtedly hoping to receive a huge sum for "delivering" the mutual funds it has managed to the highest 
bidder among other managers. This is a travesty. Why in the world don't the directors of those funds 
simply select whomever they think is best among the bidding organizations and sign up with that party 
directly? The winner would consequently be spared a huge "payoff" to the former manager who, having 
flouted the principles of stewardship, deserves not a dime. Not having to bear that acquisition cost, the 
winner could surely manage the funds in question for a far lower ongoing fee than would otherwise have 
been the case. Any truly independent director should insist on this approach to obtaining a new manager. 


The reality is that neither the decadesold rules regulating investment company directors nor the 
new rules bearing down on Corporate America foster the election of truly independent directors. In both 
instances, an individual who is receiving 100% of his income from director fees - and who may wish to 
enhance his income through election to other boards - is deemed independent. That is nonsense. The same 
rules say that Berkshire director and lawyer Ron Olson, who receives from us perhaps 3% of his very large 
income, does not qualify as independent because that 3% comes from legal fees Berkshire pays his firm 
rather than from fees he earns as a Berkshire director. Rest assured, 3% from any source would not torpedo 
Ron's independence. But getting 20%, 30% or 50% of their income from director fees might well temper 
the independence of many individuals, particularly if their overall income is not large. Indeed, I think it's 
clear that at mutual funds, it has. 



Let me make a small suggestion to "independent" mutual fund directors. Why not simply affirm 
in each annual report that "(1) We have looked at other management companies and believe the one we 
have retained for the upcoming year is among the better operations in the field; and (2) we have negotiated 
a fee with our managers comparable to what other clients with equivalent funds would negotiate." 

It does not seem unreasonable for shareholders to expect fund directors - who are often receiving 
fees that exceed $100,000 annually - to declare themselves on these points. Certainly these directors 
would satisfy themselves on both matters were they handing over a large chunk of their own money to the 
manager. If directors are unwilling to make these two declarations, shareholders should heed the maxim 
"If you don't know whose side someone is on, he's probably not on yours." 

Finally, a disclaimer. A great many funds have been run well and conscientiously despite the 
opportunities for malfeasance that exist. The shareholders of these funds have benefited, and their 
managers have earned their pay. Indeed, if I were a director of certain funds, including some that charge 
aboveaverage fees, I would enthusiastically make the two declarations I have suggested. Additionally, 
those index funds that are very lowcost (such as Vanguard's) are investorfriendly by definition and are 
the best selection for most of those who wish to own equities. 

I am on my soapbox now only because the blatant wrongdoing that has occurred has betrayed the 
trust of so many millions of shareholders. Hundreds of industry insiders had to know what was going on, 
yet none publicly said a word. It took Eliot Spitzer, and the whistleblowers who aided him, to initiate a 
housecleaning. We urge fund directors to continue the job. Like directors throughout Corporate America, 
these fiduciaries must now decide whether their job is to work for owners or for managers. 

Berkshire Governance 

True independence - meaning the willingness to challenge a forceful CEO when something is 
wrong or foolish - is an enormously valuable trait in a director. It is also rare. The place to look for it is 
among highgrade people whose interests are in line with those of rankandfile shareholders - and are in 
line in a very big way. 

We've made that search at Berkshire. We now have eleven directors and each of them, combined 
with members of their families, owns more than $4 million of Berkshire stock. Moreover, all have held 
major stakes in Berkshire for many years. In the case of six of the eleven, family ownership amounts to at 
least hundreds of millions and dates back at least three decades. All eleven directors purchased their 
holdings in the market just as you did; we've never passed out options or restricted shares. Charlie and I 
love such honesttoGod ownership. After all, who ever washes a rental car? 

In addition, director fees at Berkshire are nominal (as my son, Howard, periodically reminds me). 
Thus, the upside from Berkshire for all eleven is proportionately the same as the upside for any Berkshire 
shareholder. And it always will be. 


The downside for Berkshire directors is actually worse than yours because we carry no directors 
and officers liability insurance. Therefore, if something really catastrophic happens on our directors' 
watch, they are exposed to losses that will far exceed yours. 

The bottom line for our directors: You win, they win big; you lose, they lose big. Our approach 
might be called ownercapitalism. We know of no better way to engender true independence. (This 
structure does not guarantee perfect behavior, however: I've sat on boards of companies in which Berkshire 
had huge stakes and remained silent as questionable proposals were rubberstamped.) 

In addition to being independent, directors should have business savvy, a shareholder orientation 
and a genuine interest in the company. The rarest of these qualities is business savvy - and if it is lacking, 
the other two are of little help. Many people who are smart, articulate and admired have no real 
understanding of business. That's no sin; they may shine elsewhere. But they don't belong on corporate 
boards. Similarly, I would be useless on a medical or scientific board (though I would likely be welcomed 
by a chairman who wanted to run things his way). My name would dress up the list of directors, but I 
wouldn't know enough to critically evaluate proposals. Moreover, to cloak my ignorance, I would keep my 
mouth shut (if you can imagine that). In effect, I could be replaced, without loss, by a potted plant. 

Last year, as we moved to change our board, I asked for selfnominations from shareholders who 
believed they had the requisite qualities to be a Berkshire director. Despite the lack of either liability 
insurance or meaningful compensation, we received more than twenty applications. Most were good, 
coming from owneroriented individuals having family holdings of Berkshire worth well over $1 million. 
After considering them, Charlie and I - with the concurrence of our incumbent directors - asked four 
shareholders who did not nominate themselves to join the board: David Gottesman, Charlotte Guyman, 
Don Keough and Tom Murphy. These four people are all friends of mine, and I know their strengths well. 
They bring an extraordinary amount of business talent to Berkshire's board. 

The primary job of our directors is to select my successor, either upon my death or disability, or 
when I begin to lose my marbles. (David Ogilvy had it right when he said: "Develop your eccentricities 
when young. That way, when you get older, people won't think you are going gaga." Charlie's family and 
mine feel that we overreacted to David's advice.) 

At our directors' meetings we cover the usual run of housekeeping matters. But the real 
discussion - both with me in the room and absent - centers on the strengths and weaknesses of the four 
internal candidates to replace me. 

Our board knows that the ultimate scorecard on its performance will be determined by the record 
of my successor. He or she will need to maintain Berkshire's culture, allocate capital and keep a group of 
America's best managers happy in their jobs. This isn't the toughest task in the world - the train is already 
moving at a good clip down the track - and I'm totally comfortable about it being done well by any of the 
four candidates we have identified. I have more than 99% of my net worth in Berkshire and will be happy 
to have my wife or foundation (depending on the order in which she and I die) continue this concentration. 

Sector Results 

As managers, Charlie and I want to give our owners the financial information and commentary we 
would wish to receive if our roles were reversed. To do this with both clarity and reasonable brevity 
becomes more difficult as Berkshire's scope widens. Some of our businesses have vastly different 
economic characteristics from others, which means that our consolidated statements, with their jumble of 
figures, make useful analysis almost impossible. 

On the following pages, therefore, we will present some balance sheet and earnings figures from 
our four major categories of businesses along with commentary about each. We particularly want you to 
understand the limited circumstances under which we will use debt, since typically we shun it. We will 
not, however, inundate you with data that has no real value in calculating Berkshire's intrinsic value. 
Doing so would likely obfuscate the most important facts. One warning: When analyzing Berkshire, be 

sure to remember that the company should be viewed as an unfolding movie, not as a still photograph. 
Those who focused in the past on only the snapshot of the day sometimes reached erroneous conclusions. 

Insurance 

Let's start with insurance - since that's where the money is. 

The fountain of funds we enjoy in our insurance operations comes from "float," which is money 
that doesn't belong to us but that we temporarily hold. Most of our float arises because (1) premiums are 
paid upfront though the service we provide - insurance protection - is delivered over a period that usually 
covers a year and; (2) loss events that occur today do not always result in our immediately paying claims, 
since it sometimes takes years for losses to be reported (think asbestos), negotiated and settled. 

Float is wonderful - if it doesn't come at a high price. The cost of float is determined by 
underwriting results, meaning how losses and expenses paid compare with premiums received. The 
propertycasualty industry as a whole regularly operates at a substantial underwriting loss, and therefore 
often has a cost of float that is unattractive. 

Overall, our results have been good. True, we've had five terrible years in which float cost us 
more than 10%. But in 18 of the 37 years Berkshire has been in the insurance business, we have operated 
at an underwriting profit, meaning we were actually paid for holding money. And the quantity of this 
cheap money has grown far beyond what I dreamed it could when we entered the business in 1967. 



Last year was a standout. Float reached record levels and it came without cost as all major 
segments contributed to Berkshire's $1.7 billion pretax underwriting profit. 

Our results have been exceptional for one reason: We have truly exceptional managers. Insurers 
sell a nonproprietary piece of paper containing a nonproprietary promise. Anyone can copy anyone else's 
product. No installed base, key patents, critical real estate or natural resource position protects an insurer's 
competitive position. Typically, brands do not mean much either. 

The critical variables, therefore, are managerial brains, discipline and integrity. Our managers 
have all of these attributes - in spades. Let's take a look at these allstars and their operations. 

General Re had been Berkshire's problem child in the years following our acquisition of it in 
1998. Unfortunately, it was a 400pound child, and its negative impact on our overall 
performance was large. 

That's behind us: Gen Re is fixed. Thank Joe Brandon, its CEO, and his partner, Tad 
Montross, for that. When I wrote you last year, I thought that discipline had been restored to 
both underwriting and reserving, and events during 2003 solidified my view. 


That does not mean we will never have setbacks. Reinsurance is a business that is certain to 
deliver blows from time to time. But, under Joe and Tad, this operation will be a powerful 
engine driving Berkshire's future profitability. 

Gen Re's financial strength, unmatched among reinsurers even as we started 2003, further 
improved during the year. Many of the company's competitors suffered credit downgrades 
last year, leaving Gen Re, and its sister operation at National Indemnity, as the only AAArated 
companies among the world's major reinsurers. 

When insurers purchase reinsurance, they buy only a promise - one whose validity may not 
be tested for decades - and there are no promises in the reinsurance world equaling those 
offered by Gen Re and National Indemnity. Furthermore, unlike most reinsurers, we retain 
virtually all of the risks we assume. Therefore, our ability to pay is not dependent on the 
ability or willingness of others to reimburse us. This independent financial strength could be 
enormously important when the industry experiences the megacatastrophe it surely will. 

Regular readers of our annual reports know of Ajit Jain's incredible contributions to 
Berkshire's prosperity over the past 18 years. He continued to pour it on in 2003. With a 
staff of only 23, Ajit runs one of the world's largest reinsurance operations, specializing in 
mammoth and unusual risks. 

Often, these involve assuming catastrophe risks - say, the threat of a large California 
earthquake - of a size far greater than any other reinsurer will accept. This means Ajit's 
results (and Berkshire's) will be lumpy. You should, therefore, expect his operation to have 
an occasional horrible year. Over time, however, you can be confident of a terrific result from 
this oneofakind manager. 

Ajit writes some very unusual policies. Last year, for example, PepsiCo promoted a drawing 
that offered participants a chance to win a $1 billion prize. Understandably, Pepsi wished to 
lay off this risk, and we were the logical party to assume it. So we wrote a $1 billion policy, 
retaining the risk entirely for our own account. Because the prize, if won, was payable over 
time, our exposure in presentvalue terms was $250 million. (I helpfully suggested that any 
winner be paid $1 a year for a billion years, but that proposal didn't fly.) The drawing was 
held on September 14. Ajit and I held our breath, as did the finalist in the contest, and we left 
happier than he. PepsiCo has renewed for a repeat contest in 2004. 

GEICO was a fine insurance company when Tony Nicely took over as CEO in 1992. Now it 
is a great one. During his tenure, premium volume has increased from $2.2 billion to $8.1 
billion, and our share of the personalauto market has grown from 2.1% to 5.0%. More 
important, GEICO has paired these gains with outstanding underwriting performance. 

(We now pause for a commercial) 

It's been 67 years since Leo Goodwin created a great business idea at GEICO, one designed 
to save policyholders significant money. Go to Geico.com or call 18008477536 to see 
what we can do for you. 

(End of commercial) 

In 2003, both the number of inquiries coming into GEICO and its closure rate on these 
increased significantly. As a result our preferred policyholder count grew 8.2%, and our 
standard and nonstandard policies grew 21.4%. 

GEICO's business growth creates a neverending need for more employees and facilities. 
Our most recent expansion, announced in December, is a customer service center in - I'm 
delighted to say - Buffalo. Stan Lipsey, the publisher of our Buffalo News, was instrumental 
in bringing the city and GEICO together. 


The key figure in this matter, however, was Governor George Pataki. His leadership and 
tenacity are why Buffalo will have 2,500 new jobs when our expansion is fully rolled out. 
Stan, Tony, and I - along with Buffalo - thank him for his help. 

Berkshire's smaller insurers had another terrific year. This group, run by Rod Eldred, John 
Kizer, Tom Nerney, Don Towle and Don Wurster, increased its float by 41%, while 
delivering an excellent underwriting profit. These men, though operating in unexciting ways, 
produce truly exciting results. 



We should point out again that in any given year a company writing longtail insurance (coverages 
giving rise to claims that are often settled many years after the losscausing event takes place) can report 
almost any earnings that the CEO desires. Too often the industry has reported wildly inaccurate figures by 
misstating liabilities. Most of the mistakes have been innocent. Sometimes, however, they have been 
intentional, their object being to fool investors and regulators. Auditors and actuaries have usually failed to 
prevent both varieties of misstatement. 

I have failed on occasion too, particularly in not spotting Gen Re's unwitting underreserving a few 
years back. Not only did that mean we reported inaccurate figures to you, but the error also resulted in our 
paying very substantial taxes earlier than was necessary. Aaarrrggghh. I told you last year, however, that I 
thought our current reserving was at appropriate levels. So far, that judgment is holding up. 

Here are Berkshire's pretax underwriting results by segment: 


These contracts were explained on page 10 of the 2002 annual report, available on the Internet at 
www.berkshirehathaway.com. In brief, this segment consists of a few jumbo policies that are likely to 
produce underwriting losses (which are capped) but also provide unusually large amounts of float. 

Regulated Utility Businesses 

Through MidAmerican Energy Holdings, we own an 80.5% (fully diluted) interest in a wide 
variety of utility operations. The largest are (1) Yorkshire Electricity and Northern Electric, whose 3.7 
million electric customers make it the third largest distributor of electricity in the U.K.; (2) MidAmerican 
Energy, which serves 689,000 electric customers in Iowa and; (3) Kern River and Northern Natural 
pipelines, which carry 7.8% of the natural gas transported in the United States. 

Berkshire has three partners, who own the remaining 19.5%: Dave Sokol and Greg Abel, the 
brilliant managers of the business, and Walter Scott, a longtime friend of mine who introduced me to the 
company. Because MidAmerican is subject to the Public Utility Holding Company Act ("PUHCA"), 
Berkshire's voting interest is limited to 9.9%. Walter has the controlling vote. 

Our limited voting interest forces us to account for MidAmerican in our financial statements in an 
abbreviated manner. Instead of our fully including its assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in our 
statements, we record only a oneline entry in both our balance sheet and income account. It's likely that 


some day, perhaps soon, either PUHCA will be repealed or accounting rules will change. Berkshire's 
consolidated figures would then take in all of MidAmerican, including the substantial debt it utilizes. 

The size of this debt (which is not now, nor will it be, an obligation of Berkshire) is entirely 
appropriate. MidAmerican's diverse and stable utility operations assure that, even under harsh economic 
conditions, aggregate earnings will be ample to very comfortably service all debt. 

At yearend, $1.578 billion of MidAmerican's most junior debt was payable to Berkshire. This 
debt has allowed acquisitions to be financed without our three partners needing to increase their already 
substantial investments in MidAmerican. By charging 11% interest, Berkshire is compensated fairly for 
putting up the funds needed for purchases, while our partners are spared dilution of their equity interests. 

MidAmerican also owns a significant nonutility business, Home Services of America, the second 
largest real estate broker in the country. Unlike our utility operations, this business is highly cyclical, but 
nevertheless one we view enthusiastically. We have an exceptional manager, Ron Peltier, who, through 
both his acquisition and operational skills, is building a brokerage powerhouse. 

Last year, Home Services participated in $48.6 billion of transactions, a gain of $11.7 billion from 
2002. About 23% of the increase came from four acquisitions made during the year. Through our 16 
brokerage firms - all of which retain their local identities - we employ 16,343 brokers in 16 states. Home 
Services is almost certain to grow substantially in the next decade as we continue to acquire leading 
localized operations. 


Here's a tidbit for fans of free enterprise. On March 31, 1990, the day electric utilities in the U.K. 
were denationalized, Northern and Yorkshire had 6,800 employees in functions these companies continue 
today to perform. Now they employ 2,539. Yet the companies are serving about the same number of 
customers as when they were government owned and are distributing more electricity. 

This is not, it should be noted, a triumph of deregulation. Prices and earnings continue to be 
regulated in a fair manner by the government, just as they should be. It is a victory, however, for those who 
believe that profitmotivated managers, even though they recognize that the benefits will largely flow to 
customers, will find efficiencies that government never will. 

Here are some key figures on MidAmerican's operations: 

Finance and Financial Products 

This sector includes a wideranging group of activities. Here's some commentary on the most 
important. 

I manage a few opportunistic strategies in AAA fixedincome securities that have been quite 
profitable in the last few years. These opportunities come and go - and at present, they are 
going. We sped their departure somewhat last year, thereby realizing 24% of the capital gains 
we show in the table that follows. 

Though far from foolproof, these transactions involve no credit risk and are conducted in 
exceptionally liquid securities. We therefore finance the positions almost entirely with 
borrowed money. As the assets are reduced, so also are the borrowings. The smaller 
portfolio we now have means that in the near future our earnings in this category will decline 
significantly. It was fun while it lasted, and at some point we'll get another turn at bat. 

A far less pleasant unwinding operation is taking place at Gen Re Securities, the trading and 
derivatives operation we inherited when we purchased General Reinsurance. 

When we began to liquidate Gen Re Securities in early 2002, it had 23,218 outstanding tickets 
with 884 counterparties (some having names I couldn't pronounce, much less 
creditworthiness I could evaluate). Since then, the unit's managers have been skillful and 
diligent in unwinding positions. Yet, at yearend - nearly two years later - we still had 7,580 
tickets outstanding with 453 counterparties. (As the country song laments, "How can I miss 
you if you won't go away?") 

The shrinking of this business has been costly. We've had pretax losses of $173 million in 
2002 and $99 million in 2003. These losses, it should be noted, came from a portfolio of 
contracts that - in full compliance with GAAP - had been regularly markedtomarket with 
standard allowances for future creditloss and administrative costs. Moreover, our liquidation 
has taken place both in a benign market - we've had no credit losses of significance - and in 
an orderly manner. This is just the opposite of what might be expected if a financial crisis 
forced a number of derivatives dealers to cease operations simultaneously. 

If our derivatives experience - and the Freddie Mac shenanigans of mindblowing size and 
audacity that were revealed last year - makes you suspicious of accounting in this arena, 
consider yourself wised up. No matter how financially sophisticated you are, you can't 
possibly learn from reading the disclosure documents of a derivativesintensive company 
what risks lurk in its positions. Indeed, the more you know about derivatives, the less you 
will feel you can learn from the disclosures normally proffered you. In Darwin's words, 
"Ignorance more frequently begets confidence than does knowledge." 
 

And now it's confession time: I'm sure I could have saved you $100 million or so, pretax, if I 
had acted more promptly to shut down Gen Re Securities. Both Charlie and I knew at the 
time of the General Reinsurance merger that its derivatives business was unattractive. 
Reported profits struck us as illusory, and we felt that the business carried sizable risks that 
could not effectively be measured or limited. Moreover, we knew that any major problems 
the operation might experience would likely correlate with troubles in the financial or 
insurance world that would affect Berkshire elsewhere. In other words, if the derivatives 
business were ever to need shoring up, it would commandeer the capital and credit of 
Berkshire at just the time we could otherwise deploy those resources to huge advantage. (A 
historical note: We had just such an experience in 1974 when we were the victim of a major 
insurance fraud. We could not determine for some time how much the fraud would ultimately 
cost us and therefore kept more funds in cashequivalents than we normally would have. 


Absent this precaution, we would have made larger purchases of stocks that were then 
extraordinarily cheap.) 

Charlie would have moved swiftly to close down Gen Re Securities - no question about that. 
I, however, dithered. As a consequence, our shareholders are paying a far higher price than 
was necessary to exit this business. 

Though we include Gen Re's sizable life and health reinsurance business in the "insurance" 
sector, we show the results for Ajit Jain's life and annuity business in this section. That's 
because this business, in large part, involves arbitraging money. Our annuities range from a 
retail product sold directly on the Internet to structured settlements that require us to make 
payments for 70 years or more to people severely injured in accidents. 

We've realized some extra income in this business because of accelerated principal payments 
we received from certain fixedincome securities we had purchased at discounts. This 
phenomenon has ended, and earnings are therefore likely to be lower in this segment during 
the next few years. 

We have a $604 million investment in Value Capital, a partnership run by Mark Byrne, a 
member of a family that has helped Berkshire over the years in many ways. Berkshire is a 
limited partner in, and has no say in the management of, Mark's enterprise, which specializes 
in highlyhedged fixedincome opportunities. Mark is smart and honest and, along with his 
family, has a significant investment in Value. 

Because of accounting abuses at Enron and elsewhere, rules will soon be instituted that are 
likely to require that Value's assets and liabilities be consolidated on Berkshire's balance 
sheet. We regard this requirement as inappropriate, given that Value's liabilities - which 
usually are above $20 billion - are in no way ours. Over time, other investors will join us as 
partners in Value. When enough do, the need for us to consolidate Value will disappear. 

We have told you in the past about Berkadia, the partnership we formed three years ago with 
Leucadia to finance and manage the winddown of Finova, a bankrupt lending operation. The 
plan was that we would supply most of the capital and Leucadia would supply most of the 
brains. And that's the way it has worked. Indeed, Joe Steinberg and Ian Cumming, who 
together run Leucadia, have done such a fine job in liquidating Finova's portfolio that the $5.6 
billion guarantee we took on in connection with the transaction has been extinguished. The 
unfortunate byproduct of this fast payoff is that our future income will be much reduced. 
Overall, Berkadia has made excellent money for us, and Joe and Ian have been terrific 
partners. 

Our leasing businesses are XTRA (transportation equipment) and CORT (office furniture). 
Both operations have had poor earnings during the past two years as the recession caused 
demand to drop considerably more than was anticipated. They remain leaders in their fields, 
and I expect at least a modest improvement in their earnings this year. 

Through our Clayton purchase, we acquired a significant manufacturedhousing finance 
operation. Clayton, like others in this business, had traditionally securitized the loans it 
originated. The practice relieved stress on Clayton's balance sheet, but a byproduct was the 
"frontending" of income (a result dictated by GAAP). 

We are in no hurry to record income, have enormous balancesheet strength, and believe that 
over the longterm the economics of holding our consumer paper are superior to what we can 
now realize through securitization. So Clayton has begun to retain its loans. 

We believe it's appropriate to finance a soundlyselected book of interestbearing receivables 
almost entirely with debt (just as a bank would). Therefore, Berkshire will borrow money to 
finance Clayton's portfolio and relend these funds to Clayton at our cost plus one percentage 

point. This markup fairly compensates Berkshire for putting its exceptional creditworthiness 
to work, but it still delivers money to Clayton at an attractive price. 

In 2003, Berkshire did $2 billion of such borrowing and relending, with Clayton using much 
of this money to fund several large purchases of portfolios from lenders exiting the business. 
A portion of our loans to Clayton also provided "catchup" funding for paper it had generated 
earlier in the year from its own operation and had found difficult to securitize. 

You may wonder why we borrow money while sitting on a mountain of cash. It's because of 
our "every tub on its own bottom" philosophy. We believe that any subsidiary lending money 
should pay an appropriate rate for the funds needed to carry its receivables and should not be 
subsidized by its parent. Otherwise, having a rich daddy can lead to sloppy decisions. 
Meanwhile, the cash we accumulate at Berkshire is destined for business acquisitions or for 
the purchase of securities that offer opportunities for significant profit. Clayton's loan 
portfolio will likely grow to at least $5 billion in not too many years and, with sensible credit 
standards in place, should deliver significant earnings. 

For simplicity's sake, we include all of Clayton's earnings in this sector, though a sizable 
portion is derived from areas other than consumer finance. 


Manufacturing, Service and Retailing Operations 

Our activities in this category cover the waterfront. But let's look at a simplified balance sheet 
and earnings statement consolidating the entire group. 



This eclectic group, which sells products ranging from Dilly Bars to B737s, earned a hefty 20.7% 
on average tangible net worth last year. However, we purchased these businesses at substantial premiums 
to net worth - that fact is reflected in the goodwill item shown on the balance sheet - and that reduces the 
earnings on our average carrying value to 9.2%. 

Here are the pretax earnings for the larger categories or units. 





Three of our buildingmaterials businesses - Acme Brick, Benjamin Moore and MiTek - had record 
operating earnings last year. And earnings at Johns Manville, the fourth, were trending upward at 
yearend. Collectively, these companies earned 21.0% on tangible net worth. 

Shaw Industries, the world's largest manufacturer of broadloom carpet, also had a record year. Led by 
Bob Shaw, who built this huge enterprise from a standing start, the company will likely set another 
earnings record in 2004. In November, Shaw acquired various carpet operations from Dixie Group, 
which should add about $240 million to sales this year, boosting Shaw's volume to nearly $5 billion. 

Within the apparel group, Fruit of the Loom is our largest operation. Fruit has three major assets: a 
148yearold universallyrecognized brand, a lowcost manufacturing operation, and John Holland, its 
CEO. In 2003, Fruit accounted for 42.3% of the men's and boys' underwear that was sold by mass 
marketers (WalMart, Target, KMart, etc.) and increased its share of the women's and girls' business 
in that channel to 13.9%, up from 11.3% in 2002. 

In retailing, our furniture group earned $106 million pretax, our jewelers $59 million and See's, which 
is both a manufacturer and retailer, $59 million. 

Both R.C. Willey and Nebraska Furniture Mart ("NFM") opened hugely successful stores last year, 
Willey in Las Vegas and NFM in Kansas City, Kansas. Indeed, we believe the Kansas City store is the 
country's largestvolume homefurnishings store. (Our Omaha operation, while located on a single 
plot of land, consists of three units.) 


NFM was founded by Rose Blumkin ("Mrs. B") in 1937 with $500. She worked until she was 103 
(hmmm . . . not a bad idea). One piece of wisdom she imparted to the generations following her was, 
"If you have the lowest price, customers will find you at the bottom of a river." Our store serving 
greater Kansas City, which is located in one of the area's more sparsely populated parts, has proved 
Mrs. B's point. Though we have more than 25 acres of parking, the lot has at times overflowed. 

"Victory," President Kennedy told us after the Bay of Pigs disaster, "has a thousand fathers, but defeat 
is an orphan." At NFM, we knew we had a winner a month after the boffo opening in Kansas City, 
when our new store attracted an unexpected paternity claim. A speaker there, referring to the Blumkin 
family, asserted, "They had enough confidence and the policies of the Administration were working 
such that they were able to provide work for 1,000 of our fellow citizens." The proud papa at the 
podium? President George W. Bush. 

In flight services, FlightSafety, our training operation, experienced a drop in "normal" operating 
earnings from $183 million to $150 million. (The abnormals: In 2002 we had a $60 million pretax 
gain from the sale of a partnership interest to Boeing, and in 2003 we recognized a $37 million loss 
stemming from the premature obsolescence of simulators.) The corporate aviation business has slowed 
significantly in the past few years, and this fact has hurt FlightSafety's results. The company 
continues, however, to be far and away the leader in its field. Its simulators have an original cost of 
$1.2 billion, which is more than triple the cost of those operated by our closest competitor. 

NetJets, our fractionalownership operation lost $41 million pretax in 2003. The company had a 
modest operating profit in the U.S., but this was more than offset by a $32 million loss on aircraft 
inventory and by continued losses in Europe. 

NetJets continues to dominate the fractionalownership field, and its lead is increasing: Prospects 
overwhelmingly turn to us rather than to our three major competitors. Last year, among the four of us, 
we accounted for 70% of net sales (measured by value). 

An example of what sets NetJets apart from competitors is our Mayo Clinic Executive Travel 
Response program, a free benefit enjoyed by all of our owners. On land or in the air, anywhere in the 
world and at any hour of any day, our owners and their families have an immediate link to Mayo. 
Should an emergency occur while they are traveling here or abroad, Mayo will instantly direct them to 
an appropriate doctor or hospital. Any baseline data about the patient that Mayo possesses is 
simultaneously made available to the treating physician. Many owners have already found this service 
invaluable, including one who needed emergency brain surgery in Eastern Europe. 

The $32 million inventory writedown we took in 2003 occurred because of falling prices for used 
aircraft early in the year. Specifically, we bought back fractions from withdrawing owners at 
prevailing prices, and these fell in value before we were able to remarket them. Prices are now stable. 

The European loss is painful. But any company that forsakes Europe, as all of our competitors have 
done, is destined for secondtier status. Many of our U.S. owners fly extensively in Europe and want 
the safety and security assured by a NetJets plane and pilots. Despite a slow start, furthermore, we are 
now adding European customers at a good pace. During the years 2001 through 2003, we had gains of 
88%, 61% and 77% in European managementandflying revenues. We have not, however, yet 
succeeded in stemming the flow of red ink. 

Rich Santulli, NetJets' extraordinary CEO, and I expect our European loss to diminish in 2004 and also 
anticipate that it will be more than offset by U.S. profits. Overwhelmingly, our owners love the 
NetJets experience. Once a customer has tried us, going back to commercial aviation is like going 
back to holding hands. NetJets will become a very big business over time and will be one in which we 
are preeminent in both customer satisfaction and profits. Rich will see to that. 


Investments 

The table that follows shows our common stock investments. Those that had a market value of 
more than $500 million at the end of 2003 are itemized. 


We bought some Wells Fargo shares last year. Otherwise, among our six largest holdings, we last 
changed our position in CocaCola in 1994, American Express in 1998, Gillette in 1989, Washington Post 
in 1973, and Moody's in 2000. Brokers don't love us. 

We are neither enthusiastic nor negative about the portfolio we hold. We own pieces of excellent 
businesses - all of which had good gains in intrinsic value last year - but their current prices reflect their 
excellence. The unpleasant corollary to this conclusion is that I made a big mistake in not selling several of 
our larger holdings during The Great Bubble. If these stocks are fully priced now, you may wonder what I 
was thinking four years ago when their intrinsic value was lower and their prices far higher. So do I. 

In 2002, junk bonds became very cheap, and we purchased about $8 billion of these. The 
pendulum swung quickly though, and this sector now looks decidedly unattractive to us. Yesterday's 
weeds are today being priced as flowers. 

We've repeatedly emphasized that realized gains at Berkshire are meaningless for analytical 
purposes. We have a huge amount of unrealized gains on our books, and our thinking about when, and if, 
to cash them depends not at all on a desire to report earnings at one specific time or another. Nevertheless, 
to see the diversity of our investment activities, you may be interested in the following table, categorizing 
the gains we reported during 2003: 


The common stock profits occurred around the edges of our portfolio - not, as we already 
mentioned, from our selling down our major positions. The profits in governments arose from our 

of our subsidiaries. That did not concern us. We refused all requests to limit the right of our owners to 
make whatever gifts they chose (as long as the recipients had 501(c)(3) status). 

In 2003, however, many independent associates of The Pampered Chef began to feel the boycotts. 
This development meant that people who trusted us - but who were neither employees of ours nor had a 
voice in Berkshire decisionmaking - suffered serious losses of income. 

For our shareholders, there was some modest tax efficiency in Berkshire doing the giving rather 
than their making their gifts directly. Additionally, the program was consistent with our "partnership" 
approach, the first principle set forth in our Owner's Manual. But these advantages paled when they were 
measured against damage done loyal associates who had with great personal effort built businesses of their 
own. Indeed, Charlie and I see nothing charitable in harming decent, hardworking people just so we and 
other shareholders can gain some minor tax efficiencies. 

Berkshire now makes no contributions at the parent company level. Our various subsidiaries 
follow philanthropic policies consistent with their practices prior to their acquisition by Berkshire, except 
that any personal contributions that former owners had earlier made from their corporate pocketbook are 
now funded by them personally. 

The Annual Meeting 

Last year, I asked you to vote as to whether you wished our annual meeting to be held on Saturday 
or Monday. I was hoping for Monday. Saturday won by 2 to 1. It will be a while before shareholder 
democracy resurfaces at Berkshire. 

But you have spoken, and we will hold this year's annual meeting on Saturday, May 1 at the new 
Qwest Center in downtown Omaha. The Qwest offers us 194,000 square feet for exhibition by our 
subsidiaries (up from 65,000 square feet last year) and much more seating capacity as well. The Qwest's 
doors will open at 7 a.m., the movie will begin at 8:30, and the meeting itself will commence at 9:30. 
There will be a short break at noon for food. (Sandwiches will be available at the Qwest's concession 
stands.) That interlude aside, Charlie and I will answer questions until 3:30. We will tell you everything 
we know . . . and, at least in my case, more. 

An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain 
the credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car 
reservations, we have again signed up American Express (8007996634) to give you special help. They do 
a terrific job for us each year, and I thank them for it. 

In our usual fashion, we will run vans from the larger hotels to the meeting. Afterwards, the vans 
will make trips back to the hotels and to Nebraska Furniture Mart, Borsheim's and the airport. Even so, 
you are likely to find a car useful. 

Our exhibition of Berkshire goods and services will blow you away this year. On the floor, for 
example, will be a 1,600 square foot Clayton home (featuring Acme brick, Shaw carpet, JohnsManville 
insulation, MiTek fasteners, Carefree awnings, and outfitted with NFM furniture). You'll find it a far cry 
from the mobilehome stereotype of a few decades ago. 

GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of 
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a 
special shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 41 of the 49 jurisdictions in 
which we operate. Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save you 
money. 

On Saturday, at the Omaha airport, we will have the usual array of aircraft from NetJets. 
available for your inspection. Stop by the NetJets booth at the Qwest to learn about viewing these planes. 
If you buy what we consider an appropriate number of items during the weekend, you may well need your 
own plane to take them home. 


At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, 
we will again be having "Berkshire Weekend" pricing, which means we will be offering our shareholders a 
discount that is customarily given only to employees. We initiated this special pricing at NFM seven years 
ago, and sales during the "Weekend" grew from $5.3 million in 1997 to $17.3 million in 2003. Every year 
has set a new record. 

To get the discount, you must make your purchases between Thursday, April 29 and Monday, 
May 3 inclusive, and also present your meeting credential. The period's special pricing will even apply to 
the products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against discounting but 
that, in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. We appreciate their 
cooperation. NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on 
Sunday. On Saturday this year, from 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m., we are having a special affair for shareholders 
only. I'll be there, eating barbeque and drinking Coke. 

Borsheim's . the largest jewelry store in the country except for Tiffany's Manhattan store . will 
have two shareholderonly events. The first will be a cocktail reception from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Friday, 
April 30. The second, the main gala, will be from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Sunday, May 2. Ask Charlie to 
autograph your sales ticket. 

Shareholder prices will be available Thursday through Monday, so if you wish to avoid the large 
crowds that will assemble on Friday evening and Sunday, come at other times and identify yourself as a 
shareholder. On Saturday, we will be open until 6 p.m. Borsheim's operates on a gross margin that is fully 
twenty percentage points below that of its major rivals, so the more you buy, the more you save - at least 
that's what my wife and daughter tell me. (Both were impressed early in life by the story of the boy who, 
after missing a street car, walked home and proudly announced that he had saved 5? by doing so. His 
father was irate: "Why didn't you miss a cab and save 85??") 

In the mall outside of Borsheim's, we will have Bob Hamman and Sharon Osberg, two of the 
world's top bridge experts, available to play with our shareholders on Sunday afternoon. Additionally, 
Patrick Wolff, twice U.S. chess champion, will be in the mall, taking on all comers . blindfolded! I've 
watched, and he doesn't peek. 

Gorat's . my favorite steakhouse . will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on 
Sunday, May 2, and will be serving from 4 p.m. until 10 p.m. Please remember that to come to Gorat's on 
Sunday, you must have a reservation. To make one, call 4025513733 on April 1 (but not before). If 
Sunday is sold out, try Gorat's on one of the other evenings you will be in town. Flaunt your mastery of 
fine dining by ordering, as I do, a rare Tbone with a double order of hash browns. 

We will have a special reception on Saturday afternoon from 4:00 to 5:00 for shareholders who 
come from outside of North America. Every year our meeting draws many people from around the globe, 
and Charlie and I want to be sure we personally meet those who have come so far. Any shareholder who 
comes from other than the U.S. or Canada will be given special credentials and instructions for attending 
this function. 

Charlie and I have a great time at the annual meeting. And you will, too. So join us at the Qwest 
for our annual Woodstock for Capitalists. 




To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:  Our gain in net worth during 2002 was $6.1 billion, which increased the pershare book value of
both our Class A and Class B stock by 10.0%. Over the last 38 years (that is, since present management
took over) pershare book value has grown from $19 to $41,727, a rate of 22.2% compounded annually.?
In all respects 2002 was a banner year. I'll provide details later, but here's a summary:
? Our various noninsurance operations performed exceptionally well, despite a sluggish economy.
A decade ago Berkshire's annual pretax earnings from our noninsurance businesses was $272
million. Now, from our everexpanding collection of manufacturing, retailing, service and finance
businesses, we earn that sum monthly.
 Our insurance group increased its float to $41.2 billion, a hefty gain of $5.7 billion. Better yet, the
use of these funds in 2002 cost us only 1%. Getting back to lowcost float feels good, particularly
after our poor results during the three previous years. Berkshire's reinsurance division and
GEICO shot the lights out in 2002, and underwriting discipline was restored at General Re.
Berkshire acquired some important new businesses - with economic characteristics ranging from
good to great, run by managers ranging from great to great. Those attributes are two legs of our
"entrance" strategy, the third being a sensible purchase price. Unlike LBO operators and private
equity firms, we have no "exit" strategy - we buy to keep. That's one reason why Berkshire is
usually the first - and sometimes the only - choice for sellers and their managers.
Our marketable securities outperformed most indices. For Lou Simpson, who manages equities at
GEICO, this was old stuff. But, for me, it was a welcome change from the last few years, during
which my investment record was dismal.
The confluence of these favorable factors in 2002 caused our bookvalue gain to outstrip the
performance of the S&P 500 by 32.1 percentage points. This result is aberrational: Charlie Munger,
Berkshire's vice chairman and my partner, and I hope to achieve - at most - an average annual advantage
of a few points. In the future, there will be years in which the S&P soundly trounces us. That will in fact
almost certainly happen during a strong bull market, because the portion of our assets committed to
common stocks has significantly declined. This change, of course, helps our relative performance in down
markets such as we had in 2002.
I have another caveat to mention about last year's results. If you've been a reader of financial
reports in recent years, you've seen a flood of "proforma" earnings statements - tabulations in which
managers invariably show "earnings" far in excess of those allowed by their auditors. In these
presentations, the CEO tells his owners "don't count this, don't count that - just count what makes earnings
fat." Often, a forgetallthisbadstuff message is delivered year after year without management so much as
blushing. We've yet to see a proforma presentation disclosing that audited earnings were somewhat high.
So let's make a little history: Last year, on a proforma basis, Berkshire had lower earnings than those we
actually reported.
That is true because two favorable factors aided our reported figures. First, in 2002 there was no
megacatastrophe, which means that Berkshire (and other insurers as well) earned more from insurance than
if losses had been normal. In years when the reverse is true - because of a blockbuster hurricane,
earthquake or manmade disaster - many insurers like to report that they would have earned X "except for"
the unusual event. The implication is that since such megacats are infrequent, they shouldn't be counted
when "true" earnings are calculated. That is deceptive nonsense. "Except for" losses will forever be part
of the insurance business, and they will forever be paid with shareholders' money.
Nonetheless, for the purposes of this exercise, we'll take a page from the industry's book. For last
year, when we didn't have any truly major disasters, a downward adjustment is appropriate if you wish to
"normalize" our underwriting result.
Secondly, the bond market in 2002 favored certain strategies we employed in our finance and
financial products business. Gains from those strategies will certainly diminish within a year or two - and
may well disappear.
Soooo . . . "except for" a couple of favorable breaks, our pretax earnings last year would have
been about $500 million less than we actually reported. We're happy, nevertheless, to bank the excess. As
Jack Benny once said upon receiving an award: "I don't deserve this honor - but, then, I have arthritis, and
I don't deserve that either."We continue to be blessed with an extraordinary group of managers, many of whom haven't the
slightest financial need to work. They stick around, though: In 38 years, we've never had a single CEO of
a subsidiary elect to leave Berkshire to work elsewhere. Counting Charlie, we now have six managers over
75, and I hope that in four years that number increases by at least two (Bob Shaw and I are both 72). Our
rationale: "It's hard to teach a new dog old tricks."
Berkshire's operating CEOs are masters of their crafts and run their businesses as if they were
their own. My job is to stay out of their way and allocate whatever excess capital their businesses generate.
It's easy work.
My managerial model is Eddie Bennett, who was a batboy. In 1919, at age 19, Eddie began his
work with the Chicago White Sox, who that year went to the World Series. The next year, Eddie switched
to the Brooklyn Dodgers, and they, too, won their league title. Our hero, however, smelled trouble.
Changing boroughs, he joined the Yankees in 1921, and they promptly won their first pennant in history.
Now Eddie settled in, shrewdly seeing what was coming. In the next seven years, the Yankees won five
American League titles.
What does this have to do with management? It's simple - to be a winner, work with winners. In
1927, for example, Eddie received $700 for the 1/8th World Series share voted him by the legendary
Yankee team of Ruth and Gehrig. This sum, which Eddie earned by working only four days (because New
York swept the Series) was roughly equal to the fullyear pay then earned by batboys who worked with
ordinary associates.
Eddie understood that how he lugged bats was unimportant; what counted instead was hooking up
with the cream of those on the playing field. I've learned from Eddie. At Berkshire, I regularly hand bats
to many of the heaviest hitters in American business.
Acquisitions
We added some sluggers to our lineup last year. Two acquisitions pending at yearend 2001 were
completed: Albecca (which operates under the name LarsonJuhl), the U.S. leader in custommade picture
frames; and Fruit of the Loom, the producer of about 33.3% of the men's and boy's underwear sold in the
U.S. and of other apparel as well.
5
Both companies came with outstanding CEOs: Steve McKenzie at Albecca and John Holland at
Fruit. John, who had retired from Fruit in 1996, rejoined it three years ago and rescued the company from
the disastrous path it had gone down after he'd left. He's now 70, and I am trying to convince him to make
his next retirement coincident with mine (presently scheduled for five years after my death - a date subject,
however, to extension).
We initiated and completed two other acquisitions last year that were somewhat below our normal
size threshold. In aggregate, however, these businesses earn more than $60 million pretax annually. Both
operate in industries characterized by tough economics, but both also have important competitive strengths
that enable them to earn decent returns on capital.
The newcomers are:
(a) CTB, a worldwide leader in equipment for the poultry, hog, egg production and grain
industries; and
(b) Garan, a manufacturer of children's apparel, whose largest and bestknown line is
Garanimals?.
These two companies came with the managers responsible for their impressive records: Vic
Mancinelli at CTB and Seymour Lichtenstein at Garan.
The largest acquisition we initiated in 2002 was The Pampered Chef, a company with a fascinating
history dating back to 1980. Doris Christopher was then a 34yearold suburban Chicago home economics
teacher with a husband, two little girls, and absolutely no business background. Wanting, however, to
supplement her family's modest income, she turned to thinking about what she knew best - food
preparation. Why not, she wondered, make a business out of marketing kitchenware, focusing on the items
she herself had found most useful?
To get started, Doris borrowed $3,000 against her life insurance policy - all the money ever
injected into the company - and went to the Merchandise Mart on a buying expedition. There, she picked
up a dozen each of this and that, and then went home to set up operations in her basement.
Her plan was to conduct inhome presentations to small groups of women, gathered at the homes
of their friends. While driving to her first presentation, though, Doris almost talked herself into returning
home, convinced she was doomed to fail.
But the women she faced that evening loved her and her products, purchased $175 of goods, and
TPC was underway. Working with her husband, Jay, Doris did $50,000 of business in the first year.
Today - only 22 years later - TPC does more than $700 million of business annually, working through
67,000 kitchen consultants.
I've been to a TPC party, and it's easy to see why the business is a success. The company's
products, in large part proprietary, are wellstyled and highly useful, and the consultants are knowledgeable
and enthusiastic. Everyone has a good time. Hurry to pamperedchef.com on the Internet to find where to
attend a party near you.
Two years ago, Doris brought in Sheila O'Connell Cooper, now CEO, to share the management
load, and in August they met with me in Omaha. It took me about ten seconds to decide that these were
two managers with whom I wished to partner, and we promptly made a deal. Berkshire shareholders
couldn't be luckier than to be associated with Doris and Sheila. Berkshire also made some important acquisitions last year through MidAmerican Energy Holdings
(MEHC), a company in which our equity interest is 80.2%. Because the Public Utility Holding Company
Act (PUHCA) limits us to 9.9% voting control, however, we are unable to fully consolidate MEHC's
financial statements.
Despite the votingcontrol limitation - and the somewhat strange capital structure at MEHC it has
engendered - the company is a key part of Berkshire. Already it has $18 billion of assets and delivers our
largest stream of noninsurance earnings. It could well grow to be huge.
6
Last year MEHC acquired two important gas pipelines. The first, Kern River, extends from
Southwest Wyoming to Southern California. This line moves about 900 million cubic feet of gas a day and
is undergoing a $1.2 billion expansion that will double throughput by this fall. At that point, the line will
carry enough gas to generate electricity for ten million homes.
The second acquisition, Northern Natural Gas, is a 16,600 mile line extending from the Southwest
to a wide range of Midwestern locations. This purchase completes a corporate odyssey of particular
interest to Omahans.
From its beginnings in the 1930s, Northern Natural was one of Omaha's premier businesses, run
by CEOs who regularly distinguished themselves as community leaders. Then, in July, 1985, the company
- which in 1980 had been renamed InterNorth - merged with Houston Natural Gas, a business less than
half its size. The companies announced that the enlarged operation would be headquartered in Omaha,
with InterNorth's CEO continuing in that job.
Within a year, those promises were broken. By then, the former CEO of Houston Natural had
taken over the top job at InterNorth, the company had been renamed, and the headquarters had been moved
to Houston. These switches were orchestrated by the new CEO - Ken Lay - and the name he chose was
Enron.
Fast forward 15 years to late 2001. Enron ran into the troubles we've heard so much about and
borrowed money from Dynegy, putting up the Northern Natural pipeline operation as collateral. The two
companies quickly had a falling out, and the pipeline's ownership moved to Dynegy. That company, in
turn, soon encountered severe financial problems of its own.
MEHC received a call on Friday, July 26, from Dynegy, which was looking for a quick and
certain cash sale of the pipeline. Dynegy phoned the right party: On July 29, we signed a contract, and
shortly thereafter Northern Natural returned home.
When 2001 began, Charlie and I had no idea that Berkshire would be moving into the pipeline
business. But upon completion of the Kern River expansion, MEHC will transport about 8% of all gas
used in the U.S. We continue to look for large energyrelated assets, though in the electric utility field
PUHCA constrains what we can do. A few years ago, and somewhat by accident, MEHC found itself in the residential real estate
brokerage business. It is no accident, however, that we have dramatically expanded the operation.
Moreover, we are likely to keep on expanding in the future.
We call this business HomeServices of America. In the various communities it serves, though, it
operates under the names of the businesses it has acquired, such as CBS in Omaha, Edina Realty in
Minneapolis and Iowa Realty in Des Moines. In most metropolitan areas in which we operate, we are the
clear market leader.
HomeServices is now the second largest residential brokerage business in the country. On one
side or the other (or both), we participated in $37 billion of transactions last year, up 100% from 2001.
Most of our growth came from three acquisitions we made during 2002, the largest of which was
Prudential California Realty. Last year, this company, the leading realtor in a territory consisting of Los
Angeles, Orange and San Diego Counties, participated in $16 billion of closings.
In a very short period, Ron Peltier, the company's CEO, has increased HomeServices' revenues -
and profits - dramatically. Though this business will always be cyclical, it's one we like and in which we
continue to have an appetite for sensible acquisitions. Dave Sokol, MEHC's CEO, and Greg Abel, his key associate, are huge assets for Berkshire. They
are dealmakers, and they are managers. Berkshire stands ready to inject massive amounts of money into
MEHC - and it will be fun to watch how far Dave and Greg can take the business. The Economics of Property/Casualty Insurance
Our core business  though we have others of great importance  is insurance. To understand
Berkshire, therefore, it is necessary that you understand how to evaluate an insurance company. The key
determinants are: (1) the amount of float that the business generates; (2) its cost; and (3) most critical of all,
the longterm outlook for both of these factors.
To begin with, float is money we hold but don't own. In an insurance operation, float arises
because premiums are received before losses are paid, an interval that sometimes extends over many years.
During that time, the insurer invests the money. This pleasant activity typically carries with it a downside:
The premiums that an insurer takes in usually do not cover the losses and expenses it eventually must pay.
That leaves it running an "underwriting loss," which is the cost of float. An insurance business has value if
its cost of float over time is less than the cost the company would otherwise incur to obtain funds. But the
business is a lemon if its cost of float is higher than market rates for money. Moreover, the downward
trend of interest rates in recent years has transformed underwriting losses that formerly were tolerable into
burdens that move insurance businesses deeply into the lemon category.
Historically, Berkshire has obtained its float at a very low cost. Indeed, our cost has been less than
zero in many years; that is, we've actually been paid for holding other people's money. In 2001, however,
our cost was terrible, coming in at 12.8%, about half of which was attributable to World Trade Center
losses. Back in 198384, we had years that were even worse. There's nothing automatic about cheap float.
The table that follows shows (at intervals) the float generated by the various segments of
Berkshire's insurance operations since we entered the business 36 years ago upon acquiring National
Indemnity Company (whose traditional lines are included in the segment "Other Primary"). For the table
we have calculated our float  which we generate in large amounts relative to our premium volume  by
adding net loss reserves, loss adjustment reserves, funds held under reinsurance assumed and unearned
premium reserves, and then subtracting insurancerelated receivables, prepaid acquisition costs, prepaid
taxes and deferred charges applicable to assumed reinsurance. (Got that?) Last year our cost of float was 1%. As I mentioned earlier, you should temper your enthusiasm
about this favorable result given that no megacatastrophe occurred in 2002. We're certain to get one of
these disasters periodically, and when we do our floatcost will spike. Our 2002 results were hurt by 1) a painful charge at General Re for losses that should have been
recorded as costs in earlier years, and 2) a "desirable" charge we incur annually for retroactive insurance (see
the next section for more about these items). These costs totaled $1.75 billion, or about 4.6% of float.
Fortunately, our overall underwriting experience on 2002 business was excellent, which allowed us, even
after the charges noted, to approach a nocost result.
Absent a megacatastrophe, I expect our cost of float in 2003 to again be very low - perhaps even less
than zero. In the rundown of our insurance operations that follows, you will see why I'm optimistic that, over
time, our underwriting results will both surpass those achieved by the industry and deliver us investable funds
at minimal cost.
Insurance Operations
If our insurance operations are to generate lowcost float over time, they must: (a) underwrite with
unwavering discipline; (b) reserve conservatively; and (c) avoid an aggregation of exposures that would allow
a supposedly "impossible" incident to threaten their solvency. All of our major insurance businesses, with
one exception, have regularly met those tests.
The exception is General Re, and there was much to do at that company last year to get it up to
snuff. I'm delighted to report that under Joe Brandon's leadership, and with yeoman assistance by Tad
Montross, enormous progress has been made on each of the fronts described.
When I agreed in 1998 to merge Berkshire with Gen Re, I thought that company stuck to the three
rules I've enumerated. I had studied the operation for decades and had observed underwriting discipline that
was consistent and reserving that was conservative. At merger time, I detected no slippage in Gen Re's
standards.
I was dead wrong. Gen Re's culture and practices had substantially changed and unbeknownst to
management - and to me - the company was grossly mispricing its current business. In addition, Gen Re had
accumulated an aggregation of risks that would have been fatal had, say, terrorists detonated several largescale nuclear bombs in an attack on the U.S. A disaster of that scope was highly improbable, of course, but it
is up to insurers to limit their risks in a manner that leaves their finances rocksolid if the "impossible"
happens. Indeed, had Gen Re remained independent, the World Trade Center attack alone would have
threatened the company's existence.
When the WTC disaster occurred, it exposed weaknesses in Gen Re's operations that I should have
detected earlier. But I was lucky: Joe and Tad were on hand, freshly endowed with increased authority and
eager to rapidly correct the errors of the past. They knew what to do - and they did it.
It takes time for insurance policies to run off, however, and 2002 was well along before we managed
to reduce our aggregation of nuclear, chemical and biological risk (NCB) to a tolerable level. That problem is
now behind us.
On another front, Gen Re's underwriting attitude has been dramatically altered: The entire
organization now understands that we wish to write only properlypriced business, whatever the effect on
volume. Joe and Tad judge themselves only by Gen Re's underwriting profitability. Size simply doesn't
count.
Finally, we are making every effort to get our reserving right. If we fail at that, we can't know our
true costs. And any insurer that has no idea what its costs are is heading for big trouble. At yearend 2001, General Re attempted to reserve adequately for all losses that had occurred prior to
that date and were not yet paid - but we failed badly. Therefore the company's 2002 underwriting results
were penalized by an additional $1.31 billion that we recorded to correct the estimation mistakes of earlier
years. When I review the reserving errors that have been uncovered at General Re, a line from a country song
seems apt: "I wish I didn't know now what I didn't know then."
I can promise you that our top priority going forward is to avoid inadequate reserving. But I can't
guarantee success. The natural tendency of most casualtyinsurance managers is to underreserve, and they
must have a particular mindset - which, it may surprise you, has nothing to do with actuarial expertise - if
they are to overcome this devastating bias. Additionally, a reinsurer faces far more difficulties in reserving
properly than does a primary insurer. Nevertheless, at Berkshire, we have generally been successful in our
reserving, and we are determined to be at General Re as well.
In summary, I believe General Re is now well positioned to deliver huge amounts of nocost float to
Berkshire and that its sinktheship catastrophe risk has been eliminated. The company still possesses the
important competitive strengths that I've outlined in the past. And it gained another highly significant
advantage last year when each of its three largest worldwide competitors, previously rated AAA, was
demoted by at least one rating agency. Among the giants, General Re, rated AAA acrosstheboard, is now in
a class by itself in respect to financial strength.
No attribute is more important. Recently, in contrast, one of the world's largest reinsurers - a
company regularly recommended to primary insurers by leading brokers - has all but ceased paying claims,
including those both valid and due. This company owes many billions of dollars to hundreds of primary
insurers who now face massive writeoffs. "Cheap" reinsurance is a fool's bargain: When an insurer lays out
money today in exchange for a reinsurer's promise to pay a decade or two later, it's dangerous - and possibly
lifethreatening - for the insurer to deal with any but the strongest reinsurer around.
Berkshire shareholders owe Joe and Tad a huge thank you for their accomplishments in 2002. They
worked harder during the year than I would wish for anyone - and it is paying off. At GEICO, everything went so well in 2002 that we should pinch ourselves. Growth was
substantial, profits were outstanding, policyholder retention was up and sales productivity jumped
significantly. These trends continue in early 2003.
Thank Tony Nicely for all of this. As anyone who knows him will attest, Tony has been in love with
GEICO for 41 years - ever since he went to work for the company at 18 - and his results reflect this passion.
He is proud of the money we save policyholders - about $1 billion annually versus what other insurers, on
average, would have charged them. He is proud of the service we provide these policyholders: In a key
industry survey, GEICO was recently ranked above all major competitors. He is proud of his 19,162
associates, who last year were awarded profitsharing payments equal to 19% of their base salary because of
the splendid results they achieved. And he is proud of the growing profits he delivers to Berkshire
shareholders.
GEICO took in $2.9 billion in premiums when Berkshire acquired full ownership in 1996. Last
year, its volume was $6.9 billion, with plenty of growth to come. Particularly promising is the company's
Internet operation, whose new business grew by 75% last year. Check us out at GEICO.com (or call 800
8477536). In most states, shareholders get a special 8% discount.
Here's one footnote to GEICO's 2002 earnings that underscores the need for insurers to do business
with only the strongest of reinsurers. In 19811983, the managers then running GEICO decided to try their
hand at writing commercial umbrella and product liability insurance. The risks seemed modest: the company
took in only $3,051,000 from this line and used almost all of it - $2,979,000 - to buy reinsurance in order to
limit its losses. GEICO was left with a paltry $72,000 as compensation for the minor portion of the risk that
it retained. But this small bite of the apple was more than enough to make the experience memorable.
GEICO's losses from this venture now total a breathtaking $94.1 million or about 130,000% of the net
premium it received. Of the total loss, uncollectable receivables from deadbeat reinsurers account for no less
than $90.3 million (including $19 million charged in 2002). So much for "cheap" reinsurance. Ajit Jain's reinsurance division was the major reason our float cost us so little last year. If we ever
put a photo in a Berkshire annual report, it will be of Ajit. In color!
Ajit's operation has amassed $13.4 billion of float, more than all but a handful of insurers have ever
built up. He accomplished this from a standing start in 1986, and even now has a workforce numbering only
20. And, most important, he has produced underwriting profits.
His profits are particularly remarkable if you factor in some accounting arcana that I am about to lay
on you. So prepare to eat your spinach (or, alternatively, if debits and credits aren't your thing, skip the next
two paragraphs).
Ajit's 2002 underwriting profit of $534 million came after his operation recognized a charge of $428
million attributable to "retroactive" insurance he has written over the years. In this line of business, we
assume from another insurer the obligation to pay up to a specified amount for losses they have already
incurred - often for events that took place decades earlier - but that are yet to be paid (for example, because a
worker hurt in 1980 will receive monthly payments for life). In these arrangements, an insurer pays us a large
upfront premium, but one that is less than the losses we expect to pay. We willingly accept this differential
because a) our payments are capped, and b) we get to use the money until loss payments are actually made,
with these often stretching out over a decade or more. About 80% of the $6.6 billion in asbestos and
environmental loss reserves that we carry arises from capped contracts, whose costs consequently can't
skyrocket.
When we write a retroactive policy, we immediately record both the premium and a reserve for the
expected losses. The difference between the two is entered as an asset entitled "deferred charges -
reinsurance assumed." This is no small item: at yearend, for all retroactive policies, it was $3.4 billion. We
then amortize this asset downward by charges to income over the expected life of each policy. These charges
- $440 million in 2002, including charges at Gen Re - create an underwriting loss, but one that is intentional
and desirable. And even after this drag on reported results, Ajit achieved a large underwriting gain last year.
We want to emphasize, however, that we assume risks in Ajit's operation that are huge - far larger
than those retained by any other insurer in the world. Therefore, a single event could cause a major swing in
Ajit's results in any given quarter or year. That bothers us not at all: As long as we are paid appropriately, we
love taking on shortterm volatility that others wish to shed. At Berkshire, we would rather earn a lumpy
15% over time than a smooth 12%.
If you see Ajit at our annual meeting, bow deeply Berkshire's smaller insurers had an outstanding year. Their aggregate float grew by 38%, and they
realized an underwriting profit of $32 million, or 4.5% of premiums. Collectively, these operations would
make one of the finest insurance companies in the country.
Included in these figures, however, were terrible results in our California workers' compensation
operation. There, we have work to do. There, too, our reserving severely missed the mark. Until we figure
out how to get this business right, we will keep it small.
For the fabulous year they had in 2002, we thank Rod Eldred, John Kizer, Tom Nerney, Don Towle
and Don Wurster. They added a lot of value to your Berkshire investment.
Sources of Reported Earnings
The table that follows shows the main sources of Berkshire's reported earnings. You will notice that
"PurchaseAccounting Adjustments" dropped sharply in 2002, the reason being that GAAP rules changed
then, no longer requiring the amortization of goodwill. This change increases our reported earnings, but has
no effect on our economic earnings. Here's a summary of major developments at our noninsurance businesses:
? MidAmerican Energy's earnings grew in 2002 and will likely do so again this year. Most of the
increase, both present and expected, results from the acquisitions described earlier. To fund these,
Berkshire purchased $1,273 million of MidAmerican junior debt (bringing our total holdings of
these 11% obligations to $1,728 million) and also invested $402 million in a "commonequivalent"
stock. We now own (on a fullydiluted basis) 80.2% of MidAmerican's equity. MidAmerican's
financial statements are presented in detail on page 37.
? Last year I told you of the problems at Dexter that led to a huge loss in our shoe business. Thanks to
Frank Rooney and Jim Issler of H.H. Brown, the Dexter operation has been turned around. Despite
the cost of unwinding our problems there, we earned $24 million in shoes last year, an upward swing
of $70 million from 2001.
Randy Watson at Justin also contributed to this improvement, increasing margins significantly while
trimming invested capital. Shoes are a tough business, but we have terrific managers and believe
that in the future we will earn reasonable returns on the capital we employ in this operation. In a soso year for homefurnishing and jewelry retailers, our operations did well. Among our eight
retailing operations, the best performer was Homemaker's in Des Moines. There, the talented
Merschman family achieved outstanding gains in both sales and profits.
Nebraska Furniture Mart will open a new blockbuster store in metropolitan Kansas City in August.
With 450,000 square feet of retail space, it could well produce the second largest volume of any
furniture store in the country - the Omaha operation being the national champion. I hope Berkshire
shareholders in the Kansas City area will come out for the opening (and keep coming).
? Our home and constructionrelated businesses - Acme Brick, Benjamin Moore Paint, JohnsManville, MiTek and Shaw - delivered $941 million of pretax earnings last year. Of particular
significance was Shaw's gain from $292 million in 2001 to $424 million. Bob Shaw and Julian Saul
are terrific operators. Carpet prices increased only 1% last year, but Shaw's productivity gains and
excellent expense control delivered significantly improved margins.
We cherish costconsciousness at Berkshire. Our model is the widow who went to the local
newspaper to place an obituary notice. Told there was a 25centsaword charge, she requested
"Fred Brown died." She was then informed there was a sevenword minimum. "Okay" the
bereaved woman replied, "make it `Fred Brown died, golf clubs for sale'."
? Earnings from flight services increased last year - but only because we realized a special pretax
gain of $60 million from the sale of our 50% interest in FlightSafety Boeing. Without this gain,
earnings from our training business would have fallen slightly in concert with the slowdown in
businessaviation activity. FlightSafety training continues to be the gold standard for the industry,
and we expect growth in the years to come.
At NetJets, our fractionalownership operation, we are the runaway leader of the fourcompany field.
FAA records indicate that our industry share in 2002 was 75%, meaning that clients purchased or
leased planes from us that were valued at triple those recorded by our three competitors combined.
Last year, our fleet flew 132.7 million nautical miles, taking clients to 130 countries.
Our preeminence is directly attributable to Rich Santulli, NetJets' CEO. He invented the business in
1986 and ever since has exhibited an unbending devotion to the highest levels of service, safety and
security. Rich, Charlie and I insist on planes (and personnel) worthy of carrying our own families -
because they regularly do.
Though NetJets revenues set a record in 2002, the company again lost money. A small profit in the
U.S. was more than offset by losses in Europe. Overall, the fractionalownership industry lost
significant sums last year, and that is almost certain to be the outcome in 2003 as well. The bald fact
is that airplanes are costly to operate.
Over time, this economic reality should work to our advantage, given that for a great many
companies, private aircraft are an essential business tool. And for most of these companies, NetJets
makes compelling sense as either a primary or supplementary supplier of the aircraft they need.
Many businesses could save millions of dollars annually by flying with us. Indeed, the yearly
savings at some large companies could exceed $10 million. Equally important, these companies
would actually increase their operational capabilities by using us. A fractional ownership of a single
NetJets plane allows a client to have several planes in the air simultaneously. Additionally, through
the interchange arrangement we make available, an owner of an interest in one plane can fly any of
12 other models, using whatever plane makes most sense for a mission. (One of my sisters owns a
fraction of a Falcon 2000, which she uses for trips to Hawaii, but - exhibiting the Buffett gene - she
interchanges to a more economical Citation Excel for short trips in the U.S.)
The roster of NetJets users confirms the advantages we offer major businesses. Take General
Electric, for example. It has a large fleet of its own but also has an unsurpassed knowledge of how
to utilize aircraft effectively and economically. And it is our largest customer.
? Our finance and financial products line covers a variety of operations, among them certain activities
in highgrade fixedincome securities that proved highly profitable in 2002. Earnings in this arena
will probably continue for a while, but are certain to decrease - and perhaps disappear - in time. This category also includes a highly satisfactory - but rapidly diminishing - income stream from our
Berkadia investment in Finova (described in last year's report). Our partner, Leucadia National
Corp., has managed this operation with great skill, willingly doing far more than its share of the
heavy lifting. I like this division of labor and hope to join with Leucadia in future transactions.
On the minus side, the Finance line also includes the operations of General Re Securities, a
derivatives and trading business. This entity lost $173 million pretax last year, a result that, in part,
is a belated acknowledgment of faulty, albeit standard, accounting it used in earlier periods.
Derivatives, in fact, deserve an extensive look, both in respect to the accounting their users employ
and to the problems they may pose for both individual companies and our economy.
Derivatives
Charlie and I are of one mind in how we feel about derivatives and the trading activities that go with
them: We view them as time bombs, both for the parties that deal in them and the economic system.
Having delivered that thought, which I'll get back to, let me retreat to explaining derivatives, though
the explanation must be general because the word covers an extraordinarily wide range of financial contracts.
Essentially, these instruments call for money to change hands at some future date, with the amount to be
determined by one or more reference items, such as interest rates, stock prices or currency values. If, for
example, you are either long or short an S&P 500 futures contract, you are a party to a very simple derivatives
transaction - with your gain or loss derived from movements in the index. Derivatives contracts are of
varying duration (running sometimes to 20 or more years) and their value is often tied to several variables.
Unless derivatives contracts are collateralized or guaranteed, their ultimate value also depends on the
creditworthiness of the counterparties to them. In the meantime, though, before a contract is settled, the
counterparties record profits and losses - often huge in amount - in their current earnings statements without
so much as a penny changing hands.
The range of derivatives contracts is limited only by the imagination of man (or sometimes, so it
seems, madmen). At Enron, for example, newsprint and broadband derivatives, due to be settled many years
in the future, were put on the books. Or say you want to write a contract speculating on the number of twins
to be born in Nebraska in 2020. No problem - at a price, you will easily find an obliging counterparty.
When we purchased Gen Re, it came with General Re Securities, a derivatives dealer that Charlie
and I didn't want, judging it to be dangerous. We failed in our attempts to sell the operation, however, and
are now terminating it.
But closing down a derivatives business is easier said than done. It will be a great many years before
we are totally out of this operation (though we reduce our exposure daily). In fact, the reinsurance and
derivatives businesses are similar: Like Hell, both are easy to enter and almost impossible to exit. In either
industry, once you write a contract - which may require a large payment decades later - you are usually stuck
with it. True, there are methods by which the risk can be laid off with others. But most strategies of that kind
leave you with residual liability.
Another commonality of reinsurance and derivatives is that both generate reported earnings that are
often wildly overstated. That's true because today's earnings are in a significant way based on estimates
whose inaccuracy may not be exposed for many years.
Errors will usually be honest, reflecting only the human tendency to take an optimistic view of one's
commitments. But the parties to derivatives also have enormous incentives to cheat in accounting for them.
Those who trade derivatives are usually paid (in whole or part) on "earnings" calculated by marktomarket
accounting. But often there is no real market (think about our contract involving twins) and "marktomodel"
is utilized. This substitution can bring on largescale mischief. As a general rule, contracts involving
multiple reference items and distant settlement dates increase the opportunities for counterparties to use
fanciful assumptions. In the twins scenario, for example, the two parties to the contract might well use
differing models allowing both to show substantial profits for many years. In extreme cases, marktomodel
degenerates into what I would call marktomyth.
Of course, both internal and outside auditors review the numbers, but that's no easy job. For
example, General Re Securities at yearend (after ten months of winding down its operation) had 14,384 contracts outstanding, involving 672 counterparties around the world. Each contract had a plus or minus
value derived from one or more reference items, including some of mindboggling complexity. Valuing a
portfolio like that, expert auditors could easily and honestly have widely varying opinions.
The valuation problem is far from academic: In recent years, some hugescale frauds and nearfrauds
have been facilitated by derivatives trades. In the energy and electric utility sectors, for example, companies
used derivatives and trading activities to report great "earnings" - until the roof fell in when they actually
tried to convert the derivativesrelated receivables on their balance sheets into cash. "Marktomarket" then
turned out to be truly "marktomyth."
I can assure you that the marking errors in the derivatives business have not been symmetrical.
Almost invariably, they have favored either the trader who was eyeing a multimillion dollar bonus or the
CEO who wanted to report impressive "earnings" (or both). The bonuses were paid, and the CEO profited
from his options. Only much later did shareholders learn that the reported earnings were a sham.
Another problem about derivatives is that they can exacerbate trouble that a corporation has run into
for completely unrelated reasons. This pileon effect occurs because many derivatives contracts require that a
company suffering a credit downgrade immediately supply collateral to counterparties. Imagine, then, that a
company is downgraded because of general adversity and that its derivatives instantly kick in with their
requirement, imposing an unexpected and enormous demand for cash collateral on the company. The need to
meet this demand can then throw the company into a liquidity crisis that may, in some cases, trigger still more
downgrades. It all becomes a spiral that can lead to a corporate meltdown.
Derivatives also create a daisychain risk that is akin to the risk run by insurers or reinsurers that lay
off much of their business with others. In both cases, huge receivables from many counterparties tend to
build up over time. (At Gen Re Securities, we still have $6.5 billion of receivables, though we've been in a
liquidation mode for nearly a year.) A participant may see himself as prudent, believing his large credit
exposures to be diversified and therefore not dangerous. Under certain circumstances, though, an exogenous
event that causes the receivable from Company A to go bad will also affect those from Companies B through
Z. History teaches us that a crisis often causes problems to correlate in a manner undreamed of in more
tranquil times.
In banking, the recognition of a "linkage" problem was one of the reasons for the formation of the
Federal Reserve System. Before the Fed was established, the failure of weak banks would sometimes put
sudden and unanticipated liquidity demands on previouslystrong banks, causing them to fail in turn. The
Fed now insulates the strong from the troubles of the weak. But there is no central bank assigned to the job of
preventing the dominoes toppling in insurance or derivatives. In these industries, firms that are
fundamentally solid can become troubled simply because of the travails of other firms further down the chain.
When a "chain reaction" threat exists within an industry, it pays to minimize links of any kind. That's how
we conduct our reinsurance business, and it's one reason we are exiting derivatives.
Many people argue that derivatives reduce systemic problems, in that participants who can't bear
certain risks are able to transfer them to stronger hands. These people believe that derivatives act to stabilize
the economy, facilitate trade, and eliminate bumps for individual participants. And, on a micro level, what
they say is often true. Indeed, at Berkshire, I sometimes engage in largescale derivatives transactions in
order to facilitate certain investment strategies.
Charlie and I believe, however, that the macro picture is dangerous and getting more so. Large
amounts of risk, particularly credit risk, have become concentrated in the hands of relatively few derivatives
dealers, who in addition trade extensively with one other. The troubles of one could quickly infect the others.
On top of that, these dealers are owed huge amounts by nondealer counterparties. Some of these
counterparties, as I've mentioned, are linked in ways that could cause them to contemporaneously run into a
problem because of a single event (such as the implosion of the telecom industry or the precipitous decline in
the value of merchant power projects). Linkage, when it suddenly surfaces, can trigger serious systemic
problems.
Indeed, in 1998, the leveraged and derivativesheavy activities of a single hedge fund, LongTerm
Capital Management, caused the Federal Reserve anxieties so severe that it hastily orchestrated a rescue
effort. In later Congressional testimony, Fed officials acknowledged that, had they not intervened, the
outstanding trades of LTCM - a firm unknown to the general public and employing only a few hundred people - could well have posed a serious threat to the stability of American markets. In other words, the Fed
acted because its leaders were fearful of what might have happened to other financial institutions had the
LTCM domino toppled. And this affair, though it paralyzed many parts of the fixedincome market for
weeks, was far from a worstcase scenario.
One of the derivatives instruments that LTCM used was totalreturn swaps, contracts that facilitate
100% leverage in various markets, including stocks. For example, Party A to a contract, usually a bank, puts
up all of the money for the purchase of a stock while Party B, without putting up any capital, agrees that at a
future date it will receive any gain or pay any loss that the bank realizes.
Totalreturn swaps of this type make a joke of margin requirements. Beyond that, other types of
derivatives severely curtail the ability of regulators to curb leverage and generally get their arms around the
risk profiles of banks, insurers and other financial institutions. Similarly, even experienced investors and
analysts encounter major problems in analyzing the financial condition of firms that are heavily involved with
derivatives contracts. When Charlie and I finish reading the long footnotes detailing the derivatives activities
of major banks, the only thing we understand is that we don't understand how much risk the institution is
running.
The derivatives genie is now well out of the bottle, and these instruments will almost certainly
multiply in variety and number until some event makes their toxicity clear. Knowledge of how dangerous
they are has already permeated the electricity and gas businesses, in which the eruption of major troubles
caused the use of derivatives to diminish dramatically. Elsewhere, however, the derivatives business
continues to expand unchecked. Central banks and governments have so far found no effective way to
control, or even monitor, the risks posed by these contracts.
Charlie and I believe Berkshire should be a fortress of financial strength - for the sake of our
owners, creditors, policyholders and employees. We try to be alert to any sort of megacatastrophe risk, and
that posture may make us unduly apprehensive about the burgeoning quantities of longterm derivatives
contracts and the massive amount of uncollateralized receivables that are growing alongside. In our view,
however, derivatives are financial weapons of mass destruction, carrying dangers that, while now latent, are
potentially lethal.
Investments
Below we show our common stock investments. Those that had a market value of more than $500
million at the end of 2002 are itemized. We continue to do little in equities. Charlie and I are increasingly comfortable with our holdings in
Berkshire's major investees because most of them have increased their earnings while their valuations have
decreased. But we are not inclined to add to them. Though these enterprises have good prospects, we don't
yet believe their shares are undervalued.
In our view, the same conclusion fits stocks generally. Despite three years of falling prices, which
have significantly improved the attractiveness of common stocks, we still find very few that even mildly interest us. That dismal fact is testimony to the insanity of valuations reached during The Great Bubble.
Unfortunately, the hangover may prove to be proportional to the binge.
The aversion to equities that Charlie and I exhibit today is far from congenital. We love owning
common stocks - if they can be purchased at attractive prices. In my 61 years of investing, 50 or so years
have offered that kind of opportunity. There will be years like that again. Unless, however, we see a very
high probability of at least 10% pretax returns (which translate to 6?7% after corporate tax), we will sit on
the sidelines. With shortterm money returning less than 1% aftertax, sitting it out is no fun. But
occasionally successful investing requires inactivity.
Last year we were, however, able to make sensible investments in a few "junk" bonds and loans.
Overall, our commitments in this sector sextupled, reaching $8.3 billion by yearend.
Investing in junk bonds and investing in stocks are alike in certain ways: Both activities require us to
make a pricevalue calculation and also to scan hundreds of securities to find the very few that have attractive
reward/risk ratios. But there are important differences between the two disciplines as well. In stocks, we
expect every commitment to work out well because we concentrate on conservatively financed businesses
with strong competitive strengths, run by able and honest people. If we buy into these companies at sensible
prices, losses should be rare. Indeed, during the 38 years we have run the company's affairs, gains from the
equities we manage at Berkshire (that is, excluding those managed at General Re and GEICO) have exceeded
losses by a ratio of about 100 to one.
Purchasing junk bonds, we are dealing with enterprises that are far more marginal. These businesses
are usually overloaded with debt and often operate in industries characterized by low returns on capital.
Additionally, the quality of management is sometimes questionable. Management may even have interests
that are directly counter to those of debtholders. Therefore, we expect that we will have occasional large
losses in junk issues. So far, however, we have done reasonably well in this field.
Corporate Governance
Both the ability and fidelity of managers have long needed monitoring. Indeed, nearly 2,000 years
ago, Jesus Christ addressed this subject, speaking (Luke 16:2) approvingly of "a certain rich man" who told
his manager, "Give an account of thy stewardship; for thou mayest no longer be steward."
Accountability and stewardship withered in the last decade, becoming qualities deemed of little
importance by those caught up in the Great Bubble. As stock prices went up, the behavioral norms of
managers went down. By the late '90s, as a result, CEOs who traveled the high road did not encounter heavy
traffic.
Most CEOs, it should be noted, are men and women you would be happy to have as trustees for your
children's assets or as nextdoor neighbors. Too many of these people, however, have in recent years
behaved badly at the office, fudging numbers and drawing obscene pay for mediocre business achievements.
These otherwise decent people simply followed the career path of Mae West: "I was Snow White but I
drifted."
In theory, corporate boards should have prevented this deterioration of conduct. I last wrote about
the responsibilities of directors in the 1993 annual report. (We will send you a copy of this discussion on
request, or you may read it on the Internet in the Corporate Governance section of the 1993 letter.) There, I
said that directors "should behave as if there was a single absentee owner, whose longterm interest they
should try to further in all proper ways." This means that directors must get rid of a manager who is mediocre
or worse, no matter how likable he may be. Directors must react as did the chorusgirl bride of an 85yearold multimillionaire when he asked whether she would love him if he lost his money. "Of course," the young
beauty replied, "I would miss you, but I would still love you."
In the 1993 annual report, I also said directors had another job: "If able but greedy managers overreach and try to dip too deeply into the shareholders' pockets, directors must slap their hands." Since I wrote
that, overreaching has become common but few hands have been slapped.
Why have intelligent and decent directors failed so miserably? The answer lies not in inadequate
laws - it's always been clear that directors are obligated to represent the interests of shareholders - but rather
in what I'd call "boardroom atmosphere."It's almost impossible, for example, in a boardroom populated by wellmannered people, to raise the
question of whether the CEO should be replaced. It's equally awkward to question a proposed acquisition
that has been endorsed by the CEO, particularly when his inside staff and outside advisors are present and
unanimously support his decision. (They wouldn't be in the room if they didn't.) Finally, when the
compensation committee - armed, as always, with support from a highpaid consultant - reports on a
megagrant of options to the CEO, it would be like belching at the dinner table for a director to suggest that the
committee reconsider.
These "social" difficulties argue for outside directors regularly meeting without the CEO - a reform
that is being instituted and that I enthusiastically endorse. I doubt, however, that most of the other new
governance rules and recommendations will provide benefits commensurate with the monetary and other
costs they impose.
The current cry is for "independent" directors. It is certainly true that it is desirable to have directors
who think and speak independently - but they must also be businesssavvy, interested and shareholderoriented. In my 1993 commentary, those are the three qualities I described as essential.
Over a span of 40 years, I have been on 19 publiccompany boards (excluding Berkshire's) and have
interacted with perhaps 250 directors. Most of them were "independent" as defined by today's rules. But the
great majority of these directors lacked at least one of the three qualities I value. As a result, their
contribution to shareholder wellbeing was minimal at best and, too often, negative. These people, decent and
intelligent though they were, simply did not know enough about business and/or care enough about
shareholders to question foolish acquisitions or egregious compensation. My own behavior, I must ruefully
add, frequently fell short as well: Too often I was silent when management made proposals that I judged to be
counter to the interests of shareholders. In those cases, collegiality trumped independence.
So that we may further see the failings of "independence," let's look at a 62year case study covering
thousands of companies. Since 1940, federal law has mandated that a large proportion of the directors of
investment companies (most of these mutual funds) be independent. The requirement was originally 40% and
now it is 50%. In any case, the typical fund has long operated with a majority of directors who qualify as
independent.
These directors and the entire board have many perfunctory duties, but in actuality have only two
important responsibilities: obtaining the best possible investment manager and negotiating with that manager
for the lowest possible fee. When you are seeking investment help yourself, those two goals are the only ones
that count, and directors acting for other investors should have exactly the same priorities. Yet when it comes
to independent directors pursuing either goal, their record has been absolutely pathetic.
Many thousands of investmentcompany boards meet annually to carry out the vital job of selecting
who will manage the savings of the millions of owners they represent. Year after year the directors of Fund
A select manager A, Fund B directors select manager B, etc. . in a zombielike process that makes a
mockery of stewardship. Very occasionally, a board will revolt. But for the most part, a monkey will type
out a Shakespeare play before an "independent" mutualfund director will suggest that his fund look at other
managers, even if the incumbent manager has persistently delivered substandard performance. When they are
handling their own money, of course, directors will look to alternative advisors - but it never enters their
minds to do so when they are acting as fiduciaries for others.
The hypocrisy permeating the system is vividly exposed when a fund management company - call it
"A" - is sold for a huge sum to Manager "B". Now the "independent" directors experience a "counterrevelation" and decide that Manager B is the best that can be found - even though B was available (and
ignored) in previous years. Not so incidentally, B also could formerly have been hired at a far lower rate than
is possible now that it has bought Manager A. That's because B has laid out a fortune to acquire A, and B
must now recoup that cost through fees paid by the A shareholders who were "delivered" as part of the deal.
(For a terrific discussion of the mutual fund business, read John Bogle's Common Sense on Mutual Funds.)
A few years ago, my daughter was asked to become a director of a family of funds managed by a
major institution. The fees she would have received as a director were very substantial, enough to have
increased her annual income by about 50% (a boost, she will tell you, she could use!). Legally, she would
have been an independent director. But did the fund manager who approached her think there was any
chance that she would think independently as to what advisor the fund should employ? Of course not. I amproud to say that she showed real independence by turning down the offer. The fund, however, had no
trouble filling the slot (and - surprise - the fund has not changed managers).
Investment company directors have failed as well in negotiating management fees (just as
compensation committees of many American companies have failed to hold the compensation of their CEOs
to sensible levels). If you or I were empowered, I can assure you that we could easily negotiate materially
lower management fees with the incumbent managers of most mutual funds. And, believe me, if directors
were promised a portion of any fee savings they realized, the skies would be filled with falling fees. Under
the current system, though, reductions mean nothing to "independent" directors while meaning everything to
managers. So guess who wins?
Having the right money manager, of course, is far more important to a fund than reducing the
manager's fee. Both tasks are nonetheless the job of directors. And in stepping up to these allimportant
responsibilities, tens of thousands of "independent" directors, over more than six decades, have failed
miserably. (They've succeeded, however, in taking care of themselves; their fees from serving on multiple
boards of a single "family" of funds often run well into six figures.)
When the manager cares deeply and the directors don't, what's needed is a powerful countervailing
force - and that's the missing element in today's corporate governance. Getting rid of mediocre CEOs and
eliminating overreaching by the able ones requires action by owners - big owners. The logistics aren't that
tough: The ownership of stock has grown increasingly concentrated in recent decades, and today it would be
easy for institutional managers to exert their will on problem situations. Twenty, or even fewer, of the largest
institutions, acting together, could effectively reform corporate governance at a given company, simply by
withholding their votes for directors who were tolerating odious behavior. In my view, this kind of concerted
action is the only way that corporate stewardship can be meaningfully improved.
Unfortunately, certain major investing institutions have "glass house" problems in arguing for better
governance elsewhere; they would shudder, for example, at the thought of their own performance and fees
being closely inspected by their own boards. But Jack Bogle of Vanguard fame, Chris Davis of Davis
Advisors, and Bill Miller of Legg Mason are now offering leadership in getting CEOs to treat their owners
properly. Pension funds, as well as other fiduciaries, will reap better investment returns in the future if they
support these men.
The acid test for reform will be CEO compensation. Managers will cheerfully agree to board
"diversity," attest to SEC filings and adopt meaningless proposals relating to process. What many will fight,
however, is a hard look at their own pay and perks.
In recent years compensation committees too often have been tailwagging puppy dogs meekly
following recommendations by consultants, a breed not known for allegiance to the faceless shareholders who
pay their fees. (If you can't tell whose side someone is on, they are not on yours.) True, each committee is
required by the SEC to state its reasoning about pay in the proxy. But the words are usually boilerplate
written by the company's lawyers or its humanrelations department.
This costly charade should cease. Directors should not serve on compensation committees unless
they are themselves capable of negotiating on behalf of owners. They should explain both how they think
about pay and how they measure performance. Dealing with shareholders' money, moreover, they should
behave as they would were it their own.
In the 1890s, Samuel Gompers described the goal of organized labor as "More!" In the 1990s,
America's CEOs adopted his battle cry. The upshot is that CEOs have often amassed riches while their
shareholders have experienced financial disasters.
Directors should stop such piracy. There's nothing wrong with paying well for truly exceptional
business performance. But, for anything short of that, it's time for directors to shout "Less!" It would be a
travesty if the bloated pay of recent years became a baseline for future compensation. Compensation
committees should go back to the drawing boards Rules that have been proposed and that are almost certain to go into effect will require changes in
Berkshire's board, obliging us to add directors who meet the codified requirements for "independence."
19
Doing so, we will add a test that we believe is important, but far from determinative, in fostering
independence: We will select directors who have huge and true ownership interests (that is, stock that they or
their family have purchased, not been given by Berkshire or received via options), expecting those interests to
influence their actions to a degree that dwarfs other considerations such as prestige and board fees.
That gets to an oftenoverlooked point about directors' compensation, which at public companies
averages perhaps $50,000 annually. It baffles me how the many directors who look to these dollars for
perhaps 20% or more of their annual income can be considered independent when Ron Olson, for example,
who is on our board, may be deemed not independent because he receives a tiny percentage of his very large
income from Berkshire legal fees. As the investment company saga suggests, a director whose moderate
income is heavily dependent on directors' fees - and who hopes mightily to be invited to join other boards in
order to earn more fees - is highly unlikely to offend a CEO or fellow directors, who in a major way will
determine his reputation in corporate circles. If regulators believe that "significant" money taints
independence (and it certainly can), they have overlooked a massive class of possible offenders.
At Berkshire, wanting our fees to be meaningless to our directors, we pay them only a pittance.
Additionally, not wanting to insulate our directors from any corporate disaster we might have, we don't
provide them with officers' and directors' liability insurance (an unorthodoxy that, not so incidentally, has
saved our shareholders many millions of dollars over the years). Basically, we want the behavior of our
directors to be driven by the effect their decisions will have on their family's net worth, not by their
compensation. That's the equation for Charlie and me as managers, and we think it's the right one for
Berkshire directors as well.
To find new directors, we will look through our shareholders list for people who directly, or in their
family, have had large Berkshire holdings - in the millions of dollars - for a long time. Individuals making
that cut should automatically meet two of our tests, namely that they be interested in Berkshire and
shareholderoriented. In our third test, we will look for business savvy, a competence that is far from
commonplace.
Finally, we will continue to have members of the Buffett family on the board. They are not there to
run the business after I die, nor will they then receive compensation of any kind. Their purpose is to ensure,
for both our shareholders and managers, that Berkshire's special culture will be nurtured when I'm succeeded
by other CEOs.
Any change we make in the composition of our board will not alter the way Charlie and I run
Berkshire. We will continue to emphasize substance over form in our work and waste as little time as
possible during board meetings in showandtell and perfunctory activities. The most important job of our
board is likely to be the selection of successors to Charlie and me, and that is a matter upon which it will
focus.
The board we have had up to now has overseen a shareholderoriented business, consistently run in
accord with the economic principles set forth on pages 6874 (which I urge all new shareholders to read).
Our goal is to obtain new directors who are equally devoted to those principles.
The Audit Committee
Audit committees can't audit. Only a company's outside auditor can determine whether the earnings
that a management purports to have made are suspect. Reforms that ignore this reality and that instead focus
on the structure and charter of the audit committee will accomplish little.
As we've discussed, far too many managers have fudged their company's numbers in recent years,
using both accounting and operational techniques that are typically legal but that nevertheless materially
mislead investors. Frequently, auditors knew about these deceptions. Too often, however, they remained
silent. The key job of the audit committee is simply to get the auditors to divulge what they know.
To do this job, the committee must make sure that the auditors worry more about misleading its
members than about offending management. In recent years auditors have not felt that way. They have
instead generally viewed the CEO, rather than the shareholders or directors, as their client. That has been a
natural result of daytoday working relationships and also of the auditors' understanding that, no matter what
the book says, the CEO and CFO pay their fees and determine whether they are retained for both auditing and
other work. The rules that have been recently instituted won't materially change this reality. What will break this cozy relationship is audit committees unequivocally putting auditors on the spot, making them understand
they will become liable for major monetary penalties if they don't come forth with what they know or
suspect.
In my opinion, audit committees can accomplish this goal by asking four questions of auditors, the
answers to which should be recorded and reported to shareholders. These questions are:
1. If the auditor were solely responsible for preparation of the company's financial statements,
would they have in any way been prepared differently from the manner selected by
management? This question should cover both material and nonmaterial differences. If the
auditor would have done something differently, both management's argument and the
auditor's response should be disclosed. The audit committee should then evaluate the facts.
2. If the auditor were an investor, would he have received - in plain English - the information
essential to his understanding the company's financial performance during the reporting
period?
3. Is the company following the same internal audit procedure that would be followed if the
auditor himself were CEO? If not, what are the differences and why?
4. Is the auditor aware of any actions - either accounting or operational - that have had the
purpose and effect of moving revenues or expenses from one reporting period to another?
If the audit committee asks these questions, its composition - the focus of most reforms - is of minor
importance. In addition, the procedure will save time and expense. When auditors are put on the spot, they
will do their duty. If they are not put on the spot . . . well, we have seen the results of that.
The questions we have enumerated should be asked at least a week before an earnings report is
released to the public. That timing will allow differences between the auditors and management to be aired
with the committee and resolved. If the timing is tighter - if an earnings release is imminent when the
auditors and committee interact - the committee will feel pressure to rubberstamp the prepared figures. Haste
is the enemy of accuracy. My thinking, in fact, is that the SEC's recent shortening of reporting deadlines will
hurt the quality of information that shareholders receive. Charlie and I believe that rule is a mistake and
should be rescinded.
The primary advantage of our four questions is that they will act as a prophylactic. Once the
auditors know that the audit committee will require them to affirmatively endorse, rather than merely
acquiesce to, management's actions, they will resist misdoings early in the process, well before specious
figures become embedded in the company's books. Fear of the plaintiff's bar will see to that.
            
The Chicago Tribune ran a fourpart series on Arthur Andersen last September that did a great job of
illuminating how accounting standards and audit quality have eroded in recent years. A few decades ago, an
Arthur Andersen audit opinion was the gold standard of the profession. Within the firm, an elite Professional
Standards Group (PSG) insisted on honest reporting, no matter what pressures were applied by the client.
Sticking to these principles, the PSG took a stand in 1992 that the cost of stock options should be recorded as
the expense it clearly was. The PSG's position was reversed, however, by the "rainmaking" partners of
Andersen who knew what their clients wanted - higher reported earnings no matter what the reality. Many
CEOs also fought expensing because they knew that the obscene megagrants of options they craved would be
slashed if the true costs of these had to be recorded.
Soon after the Andersen reversal, the independent accounting standards board (FASB) voted 70 for
expensing options. Predictably, the major auditing firms and an army of CEOs stormed Washington to
pressure the Senate - what better institution to decide accounting questions? - into castrating the FASB. The
voices of the protesters were amplified by their large political contributions, usually made with corporate
money belonging to the very owners about to be bamboozled. It was not a sight for a civics class.
To its shame, the Senate voted 889 against expensing. Several prominent Senators even called for
the demise of the FASB if it didn't abandon its position. (So much for independence.) Arthur Levitt, Jr., then
Chairman of the SEC - and generally a vigilant champion of shareholders - has since described his reluctant bowing to Congressional and corporate pressures as the act of his chairmanship that he most regrets. (The
details of this sordid affair are related in Levitt's excellent book, Take on the Street.)
With the Senate in its pocket and the SEC outgunned, corporate America knew that it was now boss
when it came to accounting. With that, a new era of anythinggoes earnings reports - blessed and, in some
cases, encouraged by bigname auditors - was launched. The licentious behavior that followed quickly
became an air pump for The Great Bubble.
After being threatened by the Senate, FASB backed off its original position and adopted an "honor
system" approach, declaring expensing to be preferable but also allowing companies to ignore the cost if they
wished. The disheartening result: Of the 500 companies in the S&P, 498 adopted the method deemed less
desirable, which of course let them report higher "earnings." Compensationhungry CEOs loved this
outcome: Let FASB have the honor; they had the system.
In our 1992 annual report, discussing the unseemly and selfserving behavior of so many CEOs, I
said "the business elite risks losing its credibility on issues of significance to society - about which it may
have much of value to say - when it advocates the incredible on issues of significance to itself."
That loss of credibility has occurred. The job of CEOs is now to regain America's trust - and for the
country's sake it's important that they do so. They will not succeed in this endeavor, however, by way of
fatuous ads, meaningless policy statements, or structural changes of boards and committees. Instead, CEOs
must embrace stewardship as a way of life and treat their owners as partners, not patsies. It's time for CEOs
to walk the walk. Three suggestions for investors: First, beware of companies displaying weak accounting. If a
company still does not expense options, or if its pension assumptions are fanciful, watch out. When
managements take the low road in aspects that are visible, it is likely they are following a similar path behind
the scenes. There is seldom just one cockroach in the kitchen.
Trumpeting EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) is a particularly
pernicious practice. Doing so implies that depreciation is not truly an expense, given that it is a "noncash"
charge. That's nonsense. In truth, depreciation is a particularly unattractive expense because the cash outlay
it represents is paid up front, before the asset acquired has delivered any benefits to the business. Imagine, if
you will, that at the beginning of this year a company paid all of its employees for the next ten years of their
service (in the way they would lay out cash for a fixed asset to be useful for ten years). In the following nine
years, compensation would be a "noncash" expense - a reduction of a prepaid compensation asset
established this year. Would anyone care to argue that the recording of the expense in years two through ten
would be simply a bookkeeping formality?
Second, unintelligible footnotes usually indicate untrustworthy management. If you can't
understand a footnote or other managerial explanation, it's usually because the CEO doesn't want you to.
Enron's descriptions of certain transactions still baffle me.
Finally, be suspicious of companies that trumpet earnings projections and growth expectations.
Businesses seldom operate in a tranquil, nosurprise environment, and earnings simply don't advance
smoothly (except, of course, in the offering books of investment bankers).
Charlie and I not only don't know today what our businesses will earn next year - we don't even
know what they will earn next quarter. We are suspicious of those CEOs who regularly claim they do know
the future - and we become downright incredulous if they consistently reach their declared targets. Managers
that always promise to "make the numbers" will at some point be tempted to make up the numbers.
ShareholderDesignated Contributions
About 97.3% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 2002 shareholderdesignated
contributions program, with contributions totaling $16.5 million.
Cumulatively, over the 22 years of the program, Berkshire has made contributions of $197 million
pursuant to the instructions of our shareholders. The rest of Berkshire's giving is done by our subsidiaries,
which stick to the philanthropic patterns that prevailed before they were acquired (except that their former owners themselves take on the responsibility for their personal charities). In aggregate, our subsidiaries made
contributions of $24 million in 2002, including inkind donations of $4 million.
To participate in future programs, you must own Class A shares that are registered in the name of
the actual owner, not the nominee name of a broker, bank or depository. Shares not so registered on August
31, 2003 will be ineligible for the 2003 program. When you get the contributions form from us, return it
promptly so that it does not get put aside or forgotten. Designations received after the due date will not be
honored.
The Annual Meeting
This year's annual meeting will be held on Saturday, May 3, and once again we will be at the Civic
Auditorium. The doors will open at 7 a.m., the movie will begin at 8:30, and the meeting itself will
commence at 9:30. There will be a short break at noon for food. (Sandwiches will be available at the Civic's
concession stands.) That interlude aside, Charlie and I will answer questions until 3:30. Give us your best
shot.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the
credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car
reservations, we have again signed up American Express (8007996634) to give you special help. They do a
terrific job for us each year, and I thank them for it.
In our usual fashion, we will run vans from the larger hotels to the meeting. Afterwards, the vans
will make trips back to the hotels and to Nebraska Furniture Mart, Borsheim's and the airport. Even so, you
are likely to find a car useful.
Our exhibit area for Berkshire goods and services will be bigger and better than ever this year. So be
prepared to spend. I think you will particularly enjoy visiting The Pampered Chef display, where you may
run into Doris and Sheila.
GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a
special shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 41 of the 49 jurisdictions in
which we operate. Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save you
money.
On Saturday, at the Omaha airport, we will have the usual array of aircraft from NetJets? available
for your inspection. Just ask a representative at the Civic about viewing any of these planes. If you buy what
we consider an appropriate number of items during the weekend, you may well need your own plane to take
them home. Furthermore, if you buy a fraction of a plane, I'll personally see that you get a threepack of
briefs from Fruit of the Loom.
At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, we
will again be having "Berkshire Weekend" pricing, which means we will be offering our shareholders a
discount that is customarily given only to employees. We initiated this special pricing at NFM six years ago,
and sales during the "Weekend" grew from $5.3 million in 1997 to $14.2 million in 2002.
To get the discount, you must make your purchases during the Thursday, May 1 through Monday,
May 5 period and also present your meeting credential. The period's special pricing will even apply to the
products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against discounting but that,
in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. We appreciate their cooperation.
NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. on weekdays and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Sundays. On Saturday this year,
from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m., we are having a special affair for shareholders only. I'll be there, eating hot dogs and
drinking Coke.
Borsheim's ? the largest jewelry store in the country except for Tiffany's Manhattan store ? will
have two shareholderonly events. The first will be a cocktail reception from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Friday,
May 2. The second, the main gala, will be from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Sunday, May 4. Ask Charlie to
autograph your sales ticket.
Shareholder prices will be available Thursday through Monday, so if you wish to avoid the large
crowds that will assemble on Friday evening and Sunday, come at other times and identify yourself as ashareholder. On Saturday, we will be open until 6 p.m. Borsheim's operates on a gross margin that is fully
twenty percentage points below that of its major rivals, so the more you buy, the more you save (or at least
that's what my wife and daughter tell me).
In the mall outside of Borsheim's, we will have some of the world's top bridge experts available to
play with our shareholders on Sunday afternoon. We expect Bob Hamman, Sharon Osberg, Fred Gitelman
and Sheri Winestock to host tables. Patrick Wolff, twice U.S. chess champion, will also be in the mall, taking
on all comers ? blindfolded! Last year, Patrick played six games simultaneously ? with his blindfold
securely in place ? and for the first time suffered a loss. (He won the other five games, however.) He's
been training overtime ever since and is planning to start a new streak this year.
Additionally, Bill Robertie, one of only two players who have twice won the backgammon world
championship, will be on hand to test your skill at that game. Finally, we will have a newcomer: Peter
Morris, the winner of the World Scrabble Championship in 1991. Peter will play on five boards
simultaneously (no blindfold for him, however) and will also allow his challengers to consult a Scrabble
dictionary.
We are also going to test your vocal chords at the mall. My friend, Al Oehrle of Philadelphia, will
be at the piano to play any song in any key. Susie and I will lead the singing. She is good.
Gorat's ? my favorite steakhouse ? will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on
Sunday, May 4, and will be serving from 4 p.m. until 10 p.m. Please remember that to come to Gorat's on
Sunday, you must have a reservation. To make one, call 4025513733 on April 1 (but not before). If
Sunday is sold out, try Gorat's on one of the other evenings you will be in town. Show your sophistication by
ordering a rare Tbone with a double order of hash browns.
There won't be a ball game this year. After my fastball was clocked at 5 mph last year, I decided to
hang up my spikes. So I'll see you on Saturday night at NFM instead.Next year our meeting will be held at Omaha's new convention center. This switch in locations will
allow us to hold the event on either Saturday or Monday, whichever the majority of you prefer. Using the
enclosed special ballot, please vote for your preference - but only if you are likely to attend in the future.
We will make the Saturday/Monday decision based upon a count of shareholders, not shares. That
is, a Class B shareholder owning one share will have a vote equal to that of a Class A shareholder owning
many shares. If the vote is close, we will go with the preference of outoftowners.
Again, please vote only if there is a reasonable chance that you will be attending some meetings in
the future.
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:  Our gain in net worth during 2004 was $8.3 billion, which increased the pershare book value of 
both our Class A and Class B stock by 10.5%. Over the last 40 years (that is, since present management
took over) book value has grown from $19 to $55,824, a rate of 21.9% compounded annually. 
It's pershare intrinsic value that counts, however, not book value. Here, the news is good:
Between 1964 and 2004, Berkshire morphed from a struggling northern textile business whose intrinsic 
value was less than book into a diversified enterprise worth far more than book. Our 40year gain in 
intrinsic value has therefore somewhat exceeded our 21.9% gain in book. (For an explanation of intrinsic
value and the economic principles that guide Charlie Munger, my partner and Berkshire's vicechairman, 
and me in running Berkshire, please read our Owner's Manual, beginning on page 73.)
Despite their shortcomings, yearly calculations of book value are useful at Berkshire as a slightly 
understated gauge for measuring the longterm rate of increase in our intrinsic value. The calculations are
less relevant, however, than they once were in rating any single year's performance versus the S&P 500 
index (a comparison we display on the facing page). Our equity holdings (including convertible preferreds) 
have fallen considerably as a percentage of our net worth, from an average of 114% in the 1980s, for 
example, to less than 50% in recent years. Therefore, yearly movements in the stock market now affect a
much smaller portion of our net worth than was once the case, a fact that will normally cause us to
underperform in years when stocks rise substantially and overperform in years when they fall.
However the yearly comparisons work out, Berkshire's longterm performance versus the S&P 
remains allimportant. Our shareholders can buy the S&P through an index fund at very low cost. Unless 
we achieve gains in pershare intrinsic value in the future that outdo the S&P, Charlie and I will be adding 
nothing to what you can accomplish on your own. 
Last year, Berkshire's bookvalue gain of 10.5% fell short of the index's 10.9% return. Our lackluster performance was not due to any stumbles by the CEOs of our operating businesses: As always, 
they pulled more than their share of the load. My message to them is simple: Run your business as if it 
were the only asset your family will own over the next hundred years. Almost invariably they do just that
and, after taking care of the needs of their business, send excess cash to Omaha for me to deploy. 
I didn't do that job very well last year. My hope was to make several multibillion dollar 
acquisitions that would add new and significant streams of earnings to the many we already have. But I 
struck out. Additionally, I found very few attractive securities to buy. Berkshire therefore ended the year
with $43 billion of cash equivalents, not a happy position. Charlie and I will work to translate some of this 
hoard into more interesting assets during 2005, though we can't promise success. 
In one respect, 2004 was a remarkable year for the stock market, a fact buried in the maze of
numbers on page 2. If you examine the 35 years since the 1960s ended, you will find that an investor's 
return, including dividends, from owning the S&P has averaged 11.2% annually (well above what we
expect future returns to be). But if you look for years with returns anywhere close to that 11.2% - say, 
between 8% and 14% - you will find only one before 2004. In other words, last year's "normal" return is 
anything but.Over the 35 years, American business has delivered terrific results. It should therefore have been
easy for investors to earn juicy returns: All they had to do was piggyback Corporate America in a
diversified, lowexpense way. An index fund that they never touched would have done the job. Instead 
many investors have had experiences ranging from mediocre to disastrous.
There have been three primary causes: first, high costs, usually because investors traded
excessively or spent far too much on investment management; second, portfolio decisions based on tips and
fads rather than on thoughtful, quantified evaluation of businesses; and third, a startandstop approach to 
the market marked by untimely entries (after an advance has been long underway) and exits (after periods 
of stagnation or decline). Investors should remember that excitement and expenses are their enemies. And
if they insist on trying to time their participation in equities, they should try to be fearful when others are 
greedy and greedy only when others are fearful.
Sector Results
As managers, Charlie and I want to give our owners the financial information and commentary we 
would wish to receive if our roles were reversed. To do this with both clarity and reasonable brevity 
becomes more difficult as Berkshire's scope widens. Some of our businesses have vastly different
economic characteristics from others, which means that our consolidated statements, with their jumble of
figures, make useful analysis almost impossible. 
On the following pages, therefore, we will present some balance sheet and earnings figures from
our four major categories of businesses along with commentary about each. We particularly want you to 
understand the limited circumstances under which we will use debt, given that we typically shun it. We
will not, however, inundate you with data that has no real value in estimating Berkshire's intrinsic value. 
Doing so would tend to obfuscate the facts that count. 
Regulated Utility Businesses
We have an 80.5% (fully diluted) interest in MidAmerican Energy Holdings, which owns a wide
variety of utility operations. The largest of these are (1) Yorkshire Electricity and Northern Electric, whose 3.7 million electric customers make it the third largest distributor of electricity in the U.K.; (2) 
MidAmerican Energy, which serves 698,000 electric customers, primarily in Iowa; and (3) Kern River and 
Northern Natural pipelines, which carry 7.9% of the natural gas consumed in the U.S. 
The remaining 19.5% of MidAmerican is owned by three partners of ours: Dave Sokol and Greg
Abel, the brilliant managers of these businesses, and Walter Scott, a longtime friend of mine who 
introduced me to the company. Because MidAmerican is subject to the Public Utility Holding Company
Act ("PUHCA"), Berkshire's voting interest is limited to 9.9%. Voting control rests with Walter. 
Our limited voting interest forces us to account for MidAmerican in an abbreviated manner.
Instead of our fully incorporating the company's assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into Berkshire's 
statements, we make oneline entries only in both our balance sheet and income account. It's likely, 
though, that PUHCA will someday - perhaps soon - be repealed or that accounting rules will change. 
Berkshire's consolidated figures would then incorporate all of MidAmerican, including the substantial debt
it utilizes (though this debt is not now, nor will it ever be, an obligation of Berkshire). 
At yearend, $1.478 billion of MidAmerican's junior debt was payable to Berkshire. This debt has 
allowed acquisitions to be financed without our partners needing to increase their already substantial 
investments in MidAmerican. By charging 11% interest, Berkshire is compensated fairly for putting up the 
funds needed for purchases, while our partners are spared dilution of their equity interests. Because 
MidAmerican made no large acquisitions last year, it paid down $100 million of what it owes us. MidAmerican also owns a significant nonutility business, HomeServices of America, the second
largest real estate broker in the country. Unlike our utility operations, this business is highly cyclical, but nevertheless one we view enthusiastically. We have an exceptional manager, Ron Peltier, who through 
both his acquisition and operational skills is building a brokerage powerhouse. 
HomeServices participated in $59.8 billion of transactions in 2004, a gain of $11.2 billion from
2003. About 24% of the increase came from six acquisitions made during the year. Through our 17 
brokerage firms - all of which retain their local identities - we employ more than 18,000 brokers in 18
states. HomeServices is almost certain to grow substantially in the next decade as we continue to acquire
leading localized operations. 
Last year MidAmerican wrote off a major investment in a zinc recovery project that was initiated
in 1998 and became operational in 2002. Large quantities of zinc are present in the brine produced by our 
California geothermal operations, and we believed we could profitably extract the metal. For many
months, it appeared that commerciallyviable recoveries were imminent. But in mining, just as in oil 
exploration, prospects have a way of "teasing" their developers, and every time one problem was solved, 
another popped up. In September, we threw in the towel.
Our failure here illustrates the importance of a guideline - stay with simple propositions - that we 
usually apply in investments as well as operations. If only one variable is key to a decision, and the 
variable has a 90% chance of going your way, the chance for a successful outcome is obviously 90%. But 
if ten independent variables need to break favorably for a successful result, and each has a 90% probability 
of success, the likelihood of having a winner is only 35%. In our zinc venture, we solved most of the
problems. But one proved intractable, and that was one too many. Since a chain is no stronger than its
weakest link, it makes sense to look for - if you'll excuse an oxymoron - monolinked chains. 
A breakdown of MidAmerican's results follows. In 2004, the "other" category includes a $72.2 
million profit from sale of an Enron receivable that was thrown in when we purchased Northern Natural 
two years earlier. Walter, Dave and I, as natives of Omaha, view this unanticipated gain as war reparations - partial compensation for the loss our city suffered in 1986 when Ken Lay moved Northern to Houston, 
after promising to leave the company here. (For details, see Berkshire's 2002 annual report.)
Here are some key figures on MidAmerican's operations:Insurance 
Since Berkshire purchased National Indemnity ("NICO") in 1967, propertycasualty insurance has
been our core business and the propellant of our growth. Insurance has provided a fountain of funds with
which we've acquired the securities and businesses that now give us an everwidening variety of earnings
streams. So in this section, I will be spending a little time telling you how we got where we are. 
The source of our insurance funds is "float," which is money that doesn't belong to us but that we
temporarily hold. Most of our float arises because (1) premiums are paid upfront though the service we
provide - insurance protection - is delivered over a period that usually covers a year and; (2) loss events
that occur today do not always result in our immediately paying claims, because it sometimes takes many 
years for losses to be reported (asbestos losses would be an example), negotiated and settled. The $20 million of float that came with our 1967 purchase has now increased - both by way of internal growth and
acquisitions - to $46.1 billion.
Float is wonderful - if it doesn't come at a high price. Its cost is determined by underwriting 
results, meaning how the expenses and losses we will ultimately pay compare with the premiums we have
received. When an underwriting profit is achieved - as has been the case at Berkshire in about half of the
38 years we have been in the insurance business - float is better than free. In such years, we are actually
paid for holding other people's money. For most insurers, however, life has been far more difficult: In 
aggregate, the propertycasualty industry almost invariably operates at an underwriting loss. When that 
loss is large, float becomes expensive, sometimes devastatingly so. 
Insurers have generally earned poor returns for a simple reason: They sell a commoditylike
product. Policy forms are standard, and the product is available from many suppliers, some of whom are 
mutual companies ("owned" by policyholders rather than stockholders) with profit goals that are limited. Moreover, most insureds don't care from whom they buy. Customers by the millions say "I need some
Gillette blades" or "I'll have a Coke" but we wait in vain for "I'd like a National Indemnity policy, please."
Consequently, price competition in insurance is usually fierce. Think airline seats. 
So, you may ask, how do Berkshire's insurance operations overcome the dismal economics of the 
industry and achieve some measure of enduring competitive advantage? We've attacked that problem in
several ways. Let's look first at NICO's strategy. 
When we purchased the company - a specialist in commercial auto and general liability insurance 
- it did not appear to have any attributes that would overcome the industry's chronic troubles. It was not
wellknown, had no informational advantage (the company has never had an actuary), was not a lowcost
operator, and sold through general agents, a method many people thought outdated. Nevertheless, for 
almost all of the past 38 years, NICO has been a star performer. Indeed, had we not made this acquisition, 
Berkshire would be lucky to be worth half of what it is today. 
What we've had going for us is a managerial mindset that most insurers find impossible to
replicate. Take a look at the facing page. Can you imagine any public company embracing a business
model that would lead to the decline in revenue that we experienced from 1986 through 1999? That
colossal slide, it should be emphasized, did not occur because business was unobtainable. Many billions of premium dollars were readily available to NICO had we only been willing to cut prices. But we instead 
consistently priced to make a profit, not to match our most optimistic competitor. We never left customers 
- but they left us. 
Most American businesses harbor an "institutional imperative" that rejects extended decreases in 
volume. What CEO wants to report to his shareholders that not only did business contract last year but that 
it will continue to drop? In insurance, the urge to keep writing business is also intensified because the 
consequences of foolishlypriced policies may not become apparent for some time. If an insurer is optimistic in its reserving, reported earnings will be overstated, and years may pass before true loss costs 
are revealed (a form of selfdeception that nearly destroyed GEICO in the early 1970s).For these reasons, the results in this column simply represent our best estimate at the end of 2004 as to how 
we have done in prior years. Profit margins for the years through 1999 are probably close to correct
because these years are "mature," in the sense that they have few claims still outstanding. The more recent 
the year, the more guesswork is involved. In particular, the results shown for 2003 and 2004 are apt to 
change significantly. 
7
Finally, there is a fear factor at work, in that a shrinking business usually leads to layoffs. To
avoid pink slips, employees will rationalize inadequate pricing, telling themselves that poorlypriced 
business must be tolerated in order to keep the organization intact and the distribution system happy. If this
course isn't followed, these employees will argue, the company will not participate in the recovery that
they invariably feel is just around the corner. 
To combat employees' natural tendency to save their own skins, we have always promised
NICO's workforce that no one will be fired because of declining volume, however severe the contraction. 
(This is not Donald Trump's sort of place.) NICO is not laborintensive, and, as the table suggests, can live 
with excess overhead. It can't live, however, with underpriced business and the breakdown in underwriting
discipline that accompanies it. An insurance organization that doesn't care deeply about underwriting at a 
profit this year is unlikely to care next year either. 
Naturally, a business that follows a nolayoff policy must be especially careful to avoid 
overstaffing when times are good. Thirty years ago Tom Murphy, then CEO of Cap Cities, drove this point
home to me with a hypothetical tale about an employee who asked his boss for permission to hire an
assistant. The employee assumed that adding $20,000 to the annual payroll would be inconsequential. But his boss told him the proposal should be evaluated as a $3 million decision, given that an additional person
would probably cost at least that amount over his lifetime, factoring in raises, benefits and other expenses 
(more people, more toilet paper). And unless the company fell on very hard times, the employee added
would be unlikely to be dismissed, however marginal his contribution to the business. 
It takes real fortitude - embedded deep within a company's culture - to operate as NICO does.
Anyone examining the table can scan the years from 1986 to 1999 quickly. But living day after day with 
dwindling volume - while competitors are boasting of growth and reaping Wall Street's applause - is an
experience few managers can tolerate. NICO, however, has had four CEOs since its formation in 1940 and
none have bent. (It should be noted that only one of the four graduated from college. Our experience tells us that extraordinary business ability is largely innate.) 
The current managerial star - make that superstar - at NICO is Don Wurster (yes, he's "the
graduate"), who has been running things since 1989. His slugging percentage is right up there with Barry
Bonds' because, like Barry, Don will accept a walk rather than swing at a bad pitch. Don has now amassed 
$950 million of float at NICO that over time is almost certain to be proved the negativecost kind. Because 
insurance prices are falling, Don's volume will soon decline very significantly and, as it does, Charlie and I 
will applaud him ever more loudlyAnother way to prosper in a commoditytype business is to be the lowcost operator. Among auto
insurers operating on a broad scale, GEICO holds that cherished title. For NICO, as we have seen, an ebbandflow business model makes sense. But a company holding a lowcost advantage must pursue an
unrelenting foottothefloor strategy. And that's just what we do at GEICO. 
A century ago, when autos first appeared, the propertycasualty industry operated as a cartel. The 
major companies, most of which were based in the Northeast, established "bureau" rates and that was it. 
No one cut prices to attract business. Instead, insurers competed for strong, wellregarded agents, a focus 
that produced high commissions for agents and high prices for consumers. 
In 1922, State Farm was formed by George Mecherle, a farmer from Merna, Illinois, who aimed to take advantage of the pricing umbrella maintained by the highcost giants of the industry. State Farm
employed a "captive" agency force, a system keeping its acquisition costs lower than those incurred by the 
bureau insurers (whose "independent" agents successfully played off one company against another). With
its lowcost structure, State Farm eventually captured about 25% of the personal lines (auto and 
homeowners) business, far outdistancing its oncemighty competitors. Allstate, formed in 1931, put a
similar distribution system into place and soon became the runnerup in personal lines to State Farm.
Capitalism had worked its magic, and these lowcost operations looked unstoppable. But a man named Leo Goodwin had an idea for an even more efficient auto insurer and, with a 
skimpy $200,000, started GEICO in 1936. Goodwin's plan was to eliminate the agent entirely and to deal
instead directly with the auto owner. Why, he asked himself, should there be any unnecessary and
expensive links in the distribution mechanism when the product, auto insurance, was both mandatory and 
costly. Purchasers of business insurance, he reasoned, might well require professional advice, but most 
consumers knew what they needed in an auto policy. That was a powerful insight. 
Originally, GEICO mailed its lowcost message to a limited audience of government employees.
Later, it widened its horizons and shifted its marketing emphasis to the phone, working inquiries that came
from broadcast and print advertising. And today the Internet is coming on strong. 
Between 1936 and 1975, GEICO grew from a standing start to a 4% market share, becoming the
country's fourth largest auto insurer. During most of this period, the company was superbly managed,
achieving both excellent volume gains and high profits. It looked unstoppable. But after my friend and
hero Lorimer Davidson retired as CEO in 1970, his successors soon made a huge mistake by under?reserving for losses. This produced faulty cost information, which in turn produced inadequate pricing. By
1976, GEICO was on the brink of failure. 
Jack Byrne then joined GEICO as CEO and, almost singlehandedly, saved the company by heroic
efforts that included major price increases. Though GEICO's survival required these, policyholders fled 
the company, and by 1980 its market share had fallen to 1.8%. Subsequently, the company embarked on
some unwise diversification moves. This shift of emphasis away from its extraordinary core business
stunted GEICO's growth, and by 1993 its market share had grown only fractionally, to 1.9%. Then Tony
Nicely took charge. 
And what a difference that's made: In 2005 GEICO will probably secure a 6% market share.
Better yet, Tony has matched growth with profitability. Indeed, GEICO delivers all of its constituents
major benefits: In 2004 its customers saved $1 billion or so compared to what they would otherwise have
paid for coverage, its associates earned a $191 million profitsharing bonus that averaged 24.3% of salary,
and its owner - that's us - enjoyed excellent financial returns. 
There's more good news. When Jack Byrne was rescuing the company in 1976, New Jersey 
refused to grant him the rates he needed to operate profitably. He therefore promptly - and properly - 
withdrew from the state. Subsequently, GEICO avoided both New Jersey and Massachusetts, recognizing 
them as two jurisdictions in which insurers were destined to struggle. 
In 2003, however, New Jersey took a new look at its chronic autoinsurance problems and enacted 
legislation that would curb fraud and allow insurers a fair playing field. Even so, one might have expected
the state's bureaucracy to make change slow and difficult. 
But just the opposite occurred. Holly Bakke, the New Jersey insurance commissioner, who would 
be a success in any line of work, was determined to turn the law's intent into reality. With her staff's 
cooperation, GEICO ironed out the details for reentering the state and was licensed last August. Since
then, we've received a response from New Jersey drivers that is multiples of my expectations. 
We are now serving 140,000 policyholders - about 4% of the New Jersey market - and saving them substantial sums (as we do drivers everywhere). Wordofmouth recommendations within the state 
are causing inquiries to pour in. And once we hear from a New Jersey prospect, our closure rate - the 
percentage of policies issued to inquiries received - is far higher in the state than it is nationally. 
We make no claim, of course, that we can save everyone money. Some companies, using rating 
systems that are different from ours, will offer certain classes of drivers a lower rate than we do. But we 
believe GEICO offers the lowest price more often than any other national company that serves all segments 
of the public. In addition, in most states, including New Jersey, Berkshire shareholders receive an 8%
discount. So gamble fifteen minutes of your time and go to GEICO.com - or call 8008477536 - to see
9
whether you can save big money (which you might want to use, of course, to buy other Berkshire
products). 
            
Reinsurance - insurance sold to other insurers who wish to lay off part of the risks they have 
assumed - should not be a commodity product. At bottom, any insurance policy is simply a promise, and
as everyone knows, promises vary enormously in their quality. 
At the primary insurance level, nevertheless, just who makes the promise is often of minor 
importance. In personallines insurance, for example, states levy assessments on solvent companies to pay 
the policyholders of companies that go broke. In the businessinsurance field, the same arrangement 
applies to workers' compensation policies. "Protected" policies of these types account for about 60% of
the propertycasualty industry's volume. Prudentlyrun insurers are irritated by the need to subsidize poor 
or reckless management elsewhere, but that's the way it is. 
Other forms of business insurance at the primary level involve promises that carry greater risks for
the insured. When Reliance Insurance and Home Insurance were run into the ground, for example, their 
promises proved to be worthless. Consequently, many holders of their business policies (other than those 
covering workers' compensation) suffered painful losses. 
The solvency risk in primary policies, however, pales in comparison to that lurking in reinsurance 
policies. When a reinsurer goes broke, staggering losses almost always strike the primary companies it has 
dealt with. This risk is far from minor: GEICO has suffered tens of millions in losses from its careless 
selection of reinsurers in the early 1980s. 
Were a true megacatastrophe to occur in the next decade or two - and that's a real possibility -
some reinsurers would not survive. The largest insured loss to date is the World Trade Center disaster,
which cost the insurance industry an estimated $35 billion. Hurricane Andrew cost insurers about $15.5 billion in 1992 (though that loss would be far higher in today's dollars). Both events rocked the insurance 
and reinsurance world. But a $100 billion event, or even a larger catastrophe, remains a possibility if either 
a particularly severe earthquake or hurricane hits just the wrong place. Four significant hurricanes struck
Florida during 2004, causing an aggregate of $25 billion or so in insured losses. Two of these - Charley
and Ivan - could have done at least three times the damage they did had they entered the U.S. not far from
their actual landing points. 
Many insurers regard a $100 billion industry loss as "unthinkable" and won't even plan for it. But 
at Berkshire, we are fully prepared. Our share of the loss would probably be 3% to 5%, and earnings from
our investments and other businesses would comfortably exceed that cost. When "the day after" arrives, 
Berkshire's checks will clear. 
Though the hurricanes hit us with a $1.25 billion loss, our reinsurance operations did well last 
year. At General Re, Joe Brandon has restored a longadmired culture of underwriting discipline that, for a 
time, had lost its way. The excellent results he realized in 2004 on current business, however, were offset
by adverse developments from the years before he took the helm. At NICO's reinsurance operation, Ajit
Jain continues to successfully underwrite huge risks that no other reinsurer is willing or able to accept. 
Ajit's value to Berkshire is enormous. Our insurance managers, maximizing the competitive strengths I've mentioned in this section,
again delivered firstclass underwriting results last year. As a consequence, our float was better than
costless. Here's the scorecard: Berkshire's float increased $1.9 billion in 2004, even though a few insureds opted to commute
(that is, unwind) certain reinsurance contracts. We agree to such commutations only when we believe the
economics are favorable to us (after giving due weight to what we might earn in the future on the money 
we are returning). 
To summarize, last year we were paid more than $1.5 billion to hold an average of about $45.2
billion. In 2005 pricing will be less attractive than it has been. Nevertheless, absent a megacatastrophe, 
we have a decent chance of achieving nocost float again this year. 
Finance and Finance Products 
Last year in this section we discussed a potpourri of activities. In this report, we'll skip over 
several that are now of lesser importance: Berkadia is down to tag ends; Value Capital has added other 
investors, negating our expectation that we would need to consolidate its financials into ours; and the
trading operation that I run continues to shrink. 
? Both of Berkshire's leasing operations rebounded last year. At CORT (office furniture), earnings
remain inadequate, but are trending upward. XTRA disposed of its container and intermodal
businesses in order to concentrate on trailer leasing, long its strong suit. Overhead has been 
reduced, asset utilization is up and decent profits are now being achieved under Bill Franz, the 
company's new CEO. 
? The winddown of Gen Re Securities continues. We decided to exit this derivative operation three 
years ago, but getting out is easier said than done. Though derivative instruments are purported to
be highly liquid - and though we have had the benefit of a benign market while liquidating ours -
we still had 2,890 contracts outstanding at yearend, down from 23,218 at the peak. Like Hell, 
derivative trading is easy to enter but difficult to leave. (Other similarities come to mind as well.) 
Gen Re's derivative contracts have always been required to be marked to market, and I believe the 
company's management conscientiously tried to make realistic "marks." The market prices of
derivatives, however, can be very fuzzy in a world in which settlement of a transaction is 
sometimes decades away and often involves multiple variables as well. In the interim the marks 
influence the managerial and trading bonuses that are paid annually. It's small wonder that 
phantom profits are often recorded. 
Investors should understand that in all types of financial institutions, rapid growth sometimes masks major underlying problems (and occasionally fraud). The real test of the earning power of
a derivatives operation is what it achieves after operating for an extended period in a nogrowth mode. You only learn who has been swimming naked when the tide goes out. ? After 40 years, we've finally generated a little synergy at Berkshire: Clayton Homes is doing well 
and that's in part due to its association with Berkshire. The manufactured home industry continues to reside in the intensive care unit of Corporate America, having sold less than 135,000 
new homes last year, about the same as in 2003. Volume in these years was the lowest since 
1962, and it was also only about 40% of annual sales during the years 199599. That era, 
characterized by irresponsible financing and na?ve funders, was a fool's paradise for the industry. 
Because one major lender after another has fled the field, financing continues to bedevil 
manufacturers, retailers and purchasers of manufactured homes. Here Berkshire's support has 
proven valuable to Clayton. We stand ready to fund whatever makes sense, and last year
Clayton's management found much that qualified. 
As we explained in our 2003 report, we believe in using borrowed money to support profitable, 
interestbearing receivables. At the beginning of last year, we had borrowed $2 billion to relend to 
Clayton (at a one percentagepoint markup) and by January 2005 the total was $7.35 billion. Most
of the dollars added were borrowed by us on January 4, 2005, to finance a seasoned portfolio that
Clayton purchased on December 30, 2004 from a bank exiting the business. 
We now have two additional portfolio purchases in the works, totaling about $1.6 billion, but it's 
quite unlikely that we will secure others of any significance. Therefore, Clayton's receivables (in 
which originations will roughly offset payoffs) will probably hover around $9 billion for some
time and should deliver steady earnings. This pattern will be far different from that of the past, in
which Clayton, like all major players in its industry, "securitized" its receivables, causing earnings
to be frontended. In the last two years, the securitization market has dried up. The limited funds 
available today come only at higher cost and with harsh terms. Had Clayton remained
independent in this period, it would have had mediocre earnings as it struggled with financing. 
In April, Clayton completed the acquisition of Oakwood Homes and is now the industry's largest 
producer and retailer of manufactured homes. We love putting more assets in the hands of Kevin 
Clayton, the company's CEO. He is a prototype Berkshire manager. Today, Clayton has 11,837
employees, up from 7,136 when we purchased it, and Charlie and I are pleased that Berkshire has 
been useful in facilitating this growth. 
For simplicity's sake, we include all of Clayton's earnings in this sector, though a sizable portion 
of these are derived from areas other than consumer finance. Manufacturing, Service and Retailing Operations 
Our activities in this category cover the waterfront. But let's look at a summary balance sheet and
earnings statement consolidating the entire group. This eclectic group, which sells products ranging from Dilly Bars to fractional interests in Boeing
737s, earned a very respectable 21.7% on average tangible net worth last year, compared to 20.7% in 2003. 
It's noteworthy that these operations used only minor financial leverage in achieving these returns. Clearly,
we own some very good businesses. We purchased many of them, however, at substantial premiums to net
worth - a matter that is reflected in the goodwill item shown on the balance sheet - and that fact reduces 
the earnings on our average carrying value to 9.9%. 
Here are the pretax earnings for the larger categories or units. In the buildingproducts sector and at Shaw, we've experienced staggering cost increases for both rawmaterials and energy. By December, for example, steel costs at MiTek (whose primary business is 
connectors for roof trusses) were running 100% over a year earlier. And MiTek uses 665 million 
pounds of steel every year. Nevertheless, the company continues to be an outstanding performer. Since we purchased MiTek in 2001, Gene Toombs, its CEO, has made some brilliant "bolton" 
acquisitions and is on his way to creating a miniBerkshire. 
Shaw fielded a barrage of price increases in its main fiber materials during the year, a hit that added 
more than $300 million to its costs. (When you walk on carpet you are, in effect, stepping on 
processed oil.) Though we followed these hikes in costs with price increases of our own, there was an inevitable lag. Therefore, margins narrowed as the year progressed and remain under pressure today.
Despite these roadblocks, Shaw, led by Bob Shaw and Julian Saul, earned an outstanding 25.6% on
tangible equity in 2004. The company is a powerhouse and has a bright future. 
? In apparel, Fruit of the Loom increased unit sales by 10 million dozen, or 14%, with shipments of 
intimate apparel for women and girls growing by 31%. Charlie, who is far more knowledgeable than I 
am on this subject, assures me that women are not wearing more underwear. With this expert input, I 
can only conclude that our market share in the women's category must be growing rapidly. Thanks to
John Holland, Fruit is on the move. 
A smaller operation, Garan, also had an excellent year. Led by Seymour Lichtenstein and Jerry
Kamiel, this company manufactures the popular Garanimals line for children. Next time you are in a 
WalMart, check out this imaginative product. 
? Among our retailers, Ben Bridge (jewelry) and R. C. Willey (home furnishings) were particular
standouts last year. 
At Ben Bridge samestore sales grew 11.4%, the best gain among the publiclyheld jewelers whose
reports I have seen. Additionally, the company's profit margin widened. Last year was not a fluke: 
During the past decade, the samestore sales gains of the company have averaged 8.8%. 
Ed and Jon Bridge are fourthgeneration managers and run the business exactly as if it were their own
- which it is in every respect except for Berkshire's name on the stock certificates. The Bridges have 
expanded successfully by securing the right locations and, more importantly, by staffing these stores 
with enthusiastic and knowledgeable associates. We will move into MinneapolisSt. Paul this year. 
At Utahbased R. C. Willey, the gains from expansion have been even more dramatic, with 41.9% of
2004 sales coming from outofstate stores that didn't exist before 1999. The company also improved
its profit margin in 2004, propelled by its two new stores in Las Vegas. 
I would like to tell you that these stores were my idea. In truth, I thought they were mistakes. I knew, 
of course, how brilliantly Bill Child had run the R. C. Willey operation in Utah, where its market share 
had long been huge. But I felt our closedonSunday policy would prove disastrous away from home.
Even our first outofstate store in Boise, which was highly successful, left me unconvinced. I kept
asking whether Las Vegas residents, conditioned to sevendayaweek retailers, would adjust to us.
Our first Las Vegas store, opened in 2001, answered this question in a resounding manner,
immediately becoming our number one unit. 
Bill and Scott Hymas, his successor as CEO, then proposed a second Las Vegas store, only about 20 
minutes away. I felt this expansion would cannibalize the first unit, adding significant costs but only modest sales. The result? Each store is now doing about 26% more volume than any other store in the 
chain and is consistently showing large yearoveryear gains. 
R. C. Willey will soon open in Reno. Before making this commitment, Bill and Scott again asked for 
my advice. Initially, I was pretty puffed up about the fact that they were consulting me. But then it
dawned on me that the opinion of someone who is always wrong has its own special utility to decision?makers.
14
? Earnings improved in flight services. At FlightSafety, the world's leader in pilot training, profits rose 
as corporate aviation rebounded and our business with regional airlines increased. We now operate
283 simulators with an original cost of $1.2 billion. Pilots are trained one at a time on this expensive 
equipment. This means that as much as $3.50 of capital investment is required to produce $1 of annual
revenue. With this level of capital intensity, FlightSafety requires very high operating margins in order
to obtain reasonable returns on capital, which means that utilization rates are allimportant. Last year, 
FlightSafety's return on tangible equity improved to 15.1% from 8.4% in 2003. 
In another 2004 event, Al Ueltschi, who founded FlightSafety in 1951 with $10,000, turned over the 
CEO position to Bruce Whitman, a 43year veteran at the company. (But Al's not going anywhere; I 
won't let him.) Bruce shares Al's conviction that flying an aircraft is a privilege to be extended only to
people who regularly receive the highest quality of training and are undeniably competent. A few 
years ago, Charlie was asked to intervene with Al on behalf of a tycoon friend whom FlightSafety had
flunked. Al's reply to Charlie: "Tell your pal he belongs in the back of the plane, not the cockpit." 
FlightSafety's number one customer is NetJets, our aircraft fractionalownership subsidiary. Its 2,100 pilots spend an average of 18 days a year in training. Additionally, these pilots fly only one aircraft
type whereas many flight operations juggle pilots among several types. NetJets' high standards on
both fronts are two of the reasons I signed up with the company years before Berkshire bought it.
Fully as important in my decisions to both use and buy NetJets, however, was the fact that the
company was managed by Rich Santulli, the creator of the fractionalownership industry and a fanatic 
about safety and service. I viewed the selection of a flight provider as akin to picking a brain surgeon:
you simply want the best. (Let someone else experiment with the low bidder.) 
Last year NetJets again gained about 70% of the net new business (measured by dollar value) going to
the four companies that dominate the industry. A portion of our growth came from the 25hour card
offered by Marquis Jet Partners. Marquis is not owned by NetJets, but is instead a customer that
repackages the purchases it makes from us into smaller packages that it sells through its card. Marquis 
deals exclusively with NetJets, utilizing the power of our reputation in its marketing. 
Our U.S. contracts, including Marquis customers, grew from 3,877 to 4,967 in 2004 (versus
approximately 1,200 contracts when Berkshire bought NetJets in 1998). Some clients (including me)
enter into multiple contracts because they wish to use more than one type of aircraft, selecting for any 
given trip whichever type best fits the mission at hand. 
NetJets earned a modest amount in the U.S. last year. But what we earned domestically was largely
offset by losses in Europe. We are now, however, generating real momentum abroad. Contracts 
(including 25hour cards that we ourselves market in Europe) increased from 364 to 693 during the
year. We will again have a very significant European loss in 2005, but domestic earnings will likely 
put us in the black overall.
Europe has been expensive for NetJets - far more expensive than I anticipated - but it is essential to building a flight operation that will forever be in a class by itself. Our U.S. owners already want a 
quality service wherever they travel and their wish for flight hours abroad is certain to grow
dramatically in the decades ahead. Last year, U.S. owners made 2,003 flights in Europe, up 22% from 
the previous year and 137% from 2000. Just as important, our European owners made 1,067 flights in
the U.S., up 65% from 2003 and 239% from 2000. 
15
Investments 
We show below our common stock investments. Those that had a market value of more than $600
million at the end of 2004 are itemized. Some people may look at this table and view it as a list of stocks to be bought and sold based upon 
chart patterns, brokers' opinions, or estimates of nearterm earnings. Charlie and I ignore such distractions
and instead view our holdings as fractional ownerships in businesses. This is an important distinction.
Indeed, this thinking has been the cornerstone of my investment behavior since I was 19. At that time I
read Ben Graham's The Intelligent Investor, and the scales fell from my eyes. (Previously, I had been 
entranced by the stock market, but didn't have a clue about how to invest.)
Let's look at how the businesses of our "Big Four" - American Express, CocaCola, Gillette and 
Wells Fargo - have fared since we bought into these companies. As the table shows, we invested $3.83 
billion in the four, by way of multiple transactions between May 1988 and October 2003. On a composite 
basis, our dollarweighted purchase date is July 1992. By yearend 2004, therefore, we had held these 
"business interests," on a weighted basis, about 12? years.
In 2004, Berkshire's share of the group's earnings amounted to $1.2 billion. These earnings might 
legitimately be considered "normal." True, they were swelled because Gillette and Wells Fargo omitted 
option costs in their presentation of earnings; but on the other hand they were reduced because Coke had a 
nonrecurring writeoff.
Our share of the earnings of these four companies has grown almost every year, and now amounts
to about 31.3% of our cost. Their cash distributions to us have also grown consistently, totaling $434 
million in 2004, or about 11.3% of cost. All in all, the Big Four have delivered us a satisfactory, though far
from spectacular, business result. 
That's true as well of our experience in the market with the group. Since our original purchases, 
valuation gains have somewhat exceeded earnings growth because price/earnings ratios have increased. On 
a yeartoyear basis, however, the business and market performances have often diverged, sometimes to an
extraordinary degree. During The Great Bubble, marketvalue gains far outstripped the performance of the
businesses. In the aftermath of the Bubble, the reverse was true. 
16
Clearly, Berkshire's results would have been far better if I had caught this swing of the pendulum.
That may seem easy to do when one looks through an alwaysclean, rearview mirror. Unfortunately, 
however, it's the windshield through which investors must peer, and that glass is invariably fogged. Our
huge positions add to the difficulty of our nimbly dancing in and out of holdings as valuations swing. 
Nevertheless, I can properly be criticized for merely clucking about nosebleed valuations during
the Bubble rather than acting on my views. Though I said at the time that certain of the stocks we held
were priced ahead of themselves, I underestimated just how severe the overvaluation was. I talked when I 
should have walked. 
What Charlie and I would like is a little action now. We don't enjoy sitting on $43 billion of cash 
equivalents that are earning paltry returns. Instead, we yearn to buy more fractional interests similar to
those we now own or - better still - more large businesses outright. We will do either, however, only when
purchases can be made at prices that offer us the prospect of a reasonable return on our investment.  We've repeatedly emphasized that the "realized" gains that we report quarterly or annually are 
meaningless for analytical purposes. We have a huge amount of unrealized gains on our books, and our 
thinking about when, and if, to cash them depends not at all on a desire to report earnings at one specific
time or another. A further complication in our reported gains occurs because GAAP requires that foreign
exchange contracts be marked to market, a stipulation that causes unrealized gains or losses in these 
holdings to flow through our published earnings as if we had sold our positions. 
Despite the problems enumerated, you may be interested in a breakdown of the gains we reported 
in 2003 and 2004. The data reflect actual sales except in the case of currency gains, which are a 
combination of sales and marks to market. The junk bond profits include a foreign exchange component. When we bought these bonds in 2001 and 2002, we focused first, of course, on the credit quality of the issuers, all of which were American
corporations. Some of these companies, however, had issued bonds denominated in foreign currencies. 
Because of our views on the dollar, we favored these for purchase when they were available. 
As an example, we bought ?254 million of Level 3 bonds (10 ?% of 2008) in 2001 at 51.7% of
par, and sold these at 85% of par in December 2004. This issue was traded in Euros that cost us 88? at the
time of purchase but that brought $1.29 when we sold. Thus, of our $163 million overall gain, about $85 
million came from the market's revised opinion about Level 3's credit quality, with the remaining $78 
million resulting from the appreciation of the Euro. (In addition, we received cash interest during our
holding period that amounted to about 25% annually on our dollar cost.) The media continue to report that "Buffett buys" this or that stock. Statements like these are 
almost always based on filings Berkshire makes with the SEC and are therefore wrong. As I've said
before, the stories should say "Berkshire buys."Even then, it is typically not I who make the buying decisions. Lou Simpson manages about $2? billion of equities that are held by GEICO, and it is his transactions that Berkshire is usually reporting. Customarily his purchases are in the $200$300 million range and are in companies that are smaller than 
the ones I focus on. Take a look at the facing page to see why Lou is a cinch to be inducted into the investment Hall of Fame. 
You may be surprised to learn that Lou does not necessarily inform me about what he is doing.
When Charlie and I assign responsibility, we truly hand over the baton - and we give it to Lou just as we 
do to our operating managers. Therefore, I typically learn of Lou's transactions about ten days after the 
end of each month. Sometimes, it should be added, I silently disagree with his decisions. But he's usually right.
Foreign Currencies 
Berkshire owned about $21.4 billion of foreign exchange contracts at yearend, spread among 12 
currencies. As I mentioned last year, holdings of this kind are a decided change for us. Before March
2002, neither Berkshire nor I had ever traded in currencies. But the evidence grows that our trade policies
will put unremitting pressure on the dollar for many years to come - so since 2002 we've heeded that
warning in setting our investment course. (As W.C. Fields once said when asked for a handout: "Sorry,
son, all my money's tied up in currency.")
Be clear on one point: In no way does our thinking about currencies rest on doubts about America. 
We live in an extraordinarily rich country, the product of a system that values market economics, the rule 
of law and equality of opportunity. Our economy is far and away the strongest in the world and will 
continue to be. We are lucky to live here. 
But as I argued in a November 10, 2003 article in Fortune, (available at berkshirehathaway.com),
our country's trade practices are weighing down the dollar. The decline in its value has already been
substantial, but is nevertheless likely to continue. Without policy changes, currency markets could even
become disorderly and generate spillover effects, both political and financial. No one knows whether these 
problems will materialize. But such a scenario is a farfromremote possibility that policymakers should be
considering now. Their bent, however, is to lean toward notsobenign neglect: A 318page Congressional
study of the consequences of unremitting trade deficits was published in November 2000 and has been 
gathering dust ever since. The study was ordered after the deficit hit a thenalarming $263 billion in 1999; 
by last year it had risen to $618 billion. 
Charlie and I, it should be emphasized, believe that true trade - that is, the exchange of goods and 
services with other countries - is enormously beneficial for both us and them. Last year we had $1.15
trillion of such honesttoGod trade and the more of this, the better. But, as noted, our country also 
purchased an additional $618 billion in goods and services from the rest of the world that was 
unreciprocated. That is a staggering figure and one that has important consequences. 
The balancing item to this oneway pseudotrade  in economics there is always an offset  is a
transfer of wealth from the U.S. to the rest of the world. The transfer may materialize in the form of IOUs
our private or governmental institutions give to foreigners, or by way of their assuming ownership of our 
assets, such as stocks and real estate. In either case, Americans end up owning a reduced portion of our 
country while nonAmericans own a greater part. This forcefeeding of American wealth to the rest of the 
world is now proceeding at the rate of $1.8 billion daily, an increase of 20% since I wrote you last year. 
Consequently, other countries and their citizens now own a net of about $3 trillion of the U.S. A decade
ago their net ownership was negligible. 
The mention of trillions numbs most brains. A further source of confusion is that the current
account deficit (the sum of three items, the most important by far being the trade deficit) and our national 
budget deficit are often lumped as "twins." They are anything but. They have different causes and 
different consequences. 
19
A budget deficit in no way reduces the portion of the national pie that goes to Americans. As long 
as other countries and their citizens have no net ownership of the U.S., 100% of our country's output 
belongs to our citizens under any budget scenario, even one involving a huge deficit.
As a rich "family" awash in goods, Americans will argue through their legislators as to how 
government should redistribute the national output - that is who pays taxes and who receives governmental
benefits. If "entitlement" promises from an earlier day have to be reexamined, "family members" will 
angrily debate among themselves as to who feels the pain. Maybe taxes will go up; maybe promises will 
be modified; maybe more internal debt will be issued. But when the fight is finished, all of the family's 
huge pie remains available for its members, however it is divided. No slice must be sent abroad. 
Large and persisting current account deficits produce an entirely different result. As time passes, 
and as claims against us grow, we own less and less of what we produce. In effect, the rest of the world 
enjoys an evergrowing royalty on American output. Here, we are like a family that consistently
overspends its income. As time passes, the family finds that it is working more and more for the "finance
company" and less for itself. 
Should we continue to run current account deficits comparable to those now prevailing, the net 
ownership of the U.S. by other countries and their citizens a decade from now will amount to roughly $11 
trillion. And, if foreign investors were to earn only 5% on that net holding, we would need to send a net of $.55 trillion of goods and services abroad every year merely to service the U.S. investments then held by
foreigners. At that date, a decade out, our GDP would probably total about $18 trillion (assuming low 
inflation, which is far from a sure thing). Therefore, our U.S. "family" would then be delivering 3% of its
annual output to the rest of the world simply as tribute for the overindulgences of the past. In this case, 
unlike that involving budget deficits, the sons would truly pay for the sins of their fathers. 
This annual royalty paid the world - which would not disappear unless the U.S. massively
underconsumed and began to run consistent and large trade surpluses - would undoubtedly produce
significant political unrest in the U.S. Americans would still be living very well, indeed better than now 
because of the growth in our economy. But they would chafe at the idea of perpetually paying tribute to
their creditors and owners abroad. A country that is now aspiring to an "Ownership Society" will not find
happiness in - and I'll use hyperbole here for emphasis - a "Sharecropper's Society." But that's precisely where our trade policies, supported by Republicans and Democrats alike, are taking us. 
Many prominent U.S. financial figures, both in and out of government, have stated that our 
currentaccount deficits cannot persist. For instance, the minutes of the Federal Reserve Open Market
Committee of June 2930, 2004 say: "The staff noted that outsized external deficits could not be sustained 
indefinitely." But, despite the constant handwringing by luminaries, they offer no substantive suggestions
to tame the burgeoning imbalance. 
In the article I wrote for Fortune 16 months ago, I warned that "a gently declining dollar would
not provide the answer." And so far it hasn't. Yet policymakers continue to hope for a "soft landing,"
meanwhile counseling other countries to stimulate (read "inflate") their economies and Americans to save 
more. In my view these admonitions miss the mark: There are deeprooted structural problems that will
cause America to continue to run a huge currentaccount deficit unless trade policies either change 
materially or the dollar declines by a degree that could prove unsettling to financial markets. 
Proponents of the trade status quo are fond of quoting Adam Smith: "What is prudence in the
conduct of every family can scarce be folly in that of a great kingdom. If a foreign country can supply us
with a commodity cheaper than we ourselves can make it, better buy it of them with some part of the
produce of our own industry, employed in a way in which we have some advantage." 
I agree. Note, however, that Mr. Smith's statement refers to trade of product for product, not of
wealth for product as our country is doing to the tune of $.6 trillion annually. Moreover, I am sure that he
would never have suggested that "prudence" consisted of his "family" selling off part of its farm every day 
20
in order to finance its overconsumption. Yet that is just what the "great kingdom" called the United States
is doing.
If the U.S. was running a $.6 trillion currentaccount surplus, commentators worldwide would violently condemn our policy, viewing it as an extreme form of "mercantilism" - a longdiscredited
economic strategy under which countries fostered exports, discouraged imports, and piled up treasure. I
would condemn such a policy as well. But, in effect if not in intent, the rest of the world is practicing 
mercantilism in respect to the U.S., an act made possible by our vast store of assets and our pristine credit 
history. Indeed, the world would never let any other country use a credit card denominated in its own 
currency to the insatiable extent we are employing ours. Presently, most foreign investors are sanguine:
they may view us as spending junkies, but they know we are rich junkies as well. 
Our spendthrift behavior won't, however, be tolerated indefinitely. And though it's impossible to
forecast just when and how the trade problem will be resolved, it's improbable that the resolution will 
foster an increase in the value of our currency relative to that of our trading partners. 
We hope the U.S. adopts policies that will quickly and substantially reduce the currentaccount 
deficit. True, a prompt solution would likely cause Berkshire to record losses on its foreignexchange
contracts. But Berkshire's resources remain heavily concentrated in dollarbased assets, and both a strong
dollar and a lowinflation environment are very much in our interest. 
If you wish to keep abreast of trade and currency matters, read The Financial Times. This 
Londonbased paper has long been the leading source for daily international financial news and now has an 
excellent American edition. Both its reporting and commentary on trade are firstclass. And, again, our usual caveat: macroeconomics is a tough game in which few people, Charlie and 
I included, have demonstrated skill. We may well turn out to be wrong in our currency judgments. 
(Indeed, the fact that so many pundits now predict weakness for the dollar makes us uneasy.) If so, our 
mistake will be very public. The irony is that if we chose the opposite course, leaving all of Berkshire's
assets in dollars even as they declined significantly in value, no one would notice our mistake. 
John Maynard Keynes said in his masterful The General Theory: "Worldly wisdom teaches that it 
is better for reputation to fail conventionally than to succeed unconventionally." (Or, to put it in less elegant 
terms, lemmings as a class may be derided but never does an individual lemming get criticized.) From a
reputational standpoint, Charlie and I run a clear risk with our foreignexchange commitment. But we 
believe in managing Berkshire as if we owned 100% of it ourselves. And, were that the case, we would not
be following a dollaronly policy. 
Miscellaneous 
? Last year I told you about a group of University of Tennessee finance students who played a key 
role in our $1.7 billion acquisition of Clayton Homes. Earlier, they had been brought to Omaha by their professor, Al Auxier - he brings a class every year - to tour Nebraska Furniture Mart and
Borsheim's, eat at Gorat's and have a Q&A session with me at Kiewit Plaza. These visitors, like
those who come for our annual meeting, leave impressed by both the city and its friendly
residents. 
Other colleges and universities have now come calling. This school year we will have visiting 
classes, ranging in size from 30 to 100 students, from Chicago, Dartmouth (Tuck), Delaware State, 
Florida State, Indiana, Iowa, Iowa State, Maryland, Nebraska, Northwest Nazarene, Pennsylvania 
(Wharton), Stanford, Tennessee, Texas, Texas A&M, Toronto (Rotman), Union and Utah. Most
of the students are MBA candidates, and I've been impressed by their quality. They are keenly
interested in business and investments, but their questions indicate that they also have more on
their minds than simply making money. I always feel good after meeting them. 
21
At our sessions, I tell the newcomers the story of the Tennessee group and its spotting of Clayton 
Homes. I do this in the spirit of the farmer who enters his hen house with an ostrich egg and 
admonishes the flock: "I don't like to complain, girls, but this is just a small sample of what the 
competition is doing." To date, our new scouts have not brought us deals. But their mission in 
life has been made clear to them. 
? You should be aware of an accounting rule that mildly distorts our financial statements in a pain?today, gaintomorrow manner. Berkshire purchases life insurance policies from individuals and
corporations who would otherwise surrender them for cash. As the new holder of the policies, we 
pay any premiums that become due and ultimately - when the original holder dies - collect the 
face value of the policies. 
The original policyholder is usually in good health when we purchase the policy. Still, the price 
we pay for it is always well above its cash surrender value ("CSV"). Sometimes the original 
policyholder has borrowed against the CSV to make premium payments. In that case, the
remaining CSV will be tiny and our purchase price will be a large multiple of what the original
policyholder would have received, had he cashed out by surrendering it. 
Under accounting rules, we must immediately charge as a realized capital loss the excess over 
CSV that we pay upon purchasing the policy. We also must make additional charges each year for 
the amount by which the premium we pay to keep the policy in force exceeds the increase in CSV.
But obviously, we don't think these bookkeeping charges represent economic losses. If we did, 
we wouldn't buy the policies. 
During 2004, we recorded net "losses" from the purchase of policies (and from the premium payments required to maintain them) totaling $207 million, which was charged against realized
investment gains in our earnings statement (included in "other" in the table on page 17). When
the proceeds from these policies are received in the future, we will record as realized investment
gain the excess over the thenCSV. 
? Two postbubble governance reforms have been particularly useful at Berkshire, and I fault myself
for not putting them in place many years ago. The first involves regular meetings of directors 
without the CEO present. I've sat on 19 boards, and on many occasions this process would have
led to dubious plans being examined more thoroughly. In a few cases, CEO changes that were 
needed would also have been made more promptly. There is no downside to this process, and
there are many possible benefits. 
The second reform concerns the "whistleblower line," an arrangement through which employees 
can send information to me and the board's audit committee without fear of reprisal. Berkshire's
extreme decentralization makes this system particularly valuable both to me and the committee.
(In a sprawling "city" of 180,000 - Berkshire's current employee count - not every sparrow that
falls will be noticed at headquarters.) Most of the complaints we have received are of "the guy 
next to me has bad breath" variety, but on occasion I have learned of important problems at our 
subsidiaries that I otherwise would have missed. The issues raised are usually not of a type 
discoverable by audit, but relate instead to personnel and business practices. Berkshire would be more valuable today if I had put in a whistleblower line decades ago. ? Charlie and I love the idea of shareholders thinking and behaving like owners. Sometimes that
requires them to be proactive. And in this arena large institutional owners should lead the way. 
So far, however, the moves made by institutions have been less than aweinspiring. Usually, 
they've focused on minutiae and ignored the three questions that truly count. First, does the 
company have the right CEO? Second, is he/she overreaching in terms of compensation? Third,
are proposed acquisitions more likely to create or destroy pershare value?
22
On such questions, the interests of the CEO may well differ from those of the shareholders. 
Directors, moreover, sometimes lack the knowledge or gumption to overrule the CEO. Therefore, 
it's vital that large owners focus on these three questions and speak up when necessary. 
Instead many simply follow a "checklist" approach to the issue du jour. Last year I was on the
receiving end of a judgment reached in that manner. Several institutional shareholders and their 
advisors decided I lacked "independence" in my role as a director of CocaCola. One group 
wanted me removed from the board and another simply wanted me booted from the audit 
committee. 
My first impulse was to secretly fund the group behind the second idea. Why anyone would wish
to be on an audit committee is beyond me. But since directors must be assigned to one committee
or another, and since no CEO wants me on his compensation committee, it's often been my lot to get an audit committee assignment. As it turned out, the institutions that opposed me failed and I 
was reelected to the audit job. (I fought off the urge to ask for a recount.) 
Some institutions questioned my "independence" because, among other things, McLane and Dairy 
Queen buy lots of Coke products. (Do they want us to favor Pepsi?) But independence is defined 
in Webster's as "not subject to control by others." I'm puzzled how anyone could conclude that 
our Coke purchases would "control" my decisionmaking when the counterweight is the wellbeing of $8 billion of Coke stock held by Berkshire. Assuming I'm even marginally rational,
elementary arithmetic should make it clear that my heart and mind belong to the owners of Coke, 
not to its management. 
I can't resist mentioning that Jesus understood the calibration of independence far more clearly
than do the protesting institutions. In Matthew 6:21 He observed: "For where your treasure is,
there will your heart be also." Even to an institutional investor, $8 billion should qualify as
"treasure" that dwarfs any profits Berkshire might earn on its routine transactions with Coke. 
Measured by the biblical standard, the Berkshire board is a model: (a) every director is a member
of a family owning at least $4 million of stock; (b) none of these shares were acquired from 
Berkshire via options or grants; (c) no directors receive committee, consulting or board fees from 
the company that are more than a tiny portion of their annual income; and (d) although we have a 
standard corporate indemnity arrangement, we carry no liability insurance for directors. 
At Berkshire, board members travel the same road as shareholders. And, again, our usual caveat: macroeconomics is a tough game in which few people, Charlie and 
I included, have demonstrated skill. We may well turn out to be wrong in our currency judgments. 
(Indeed, the fact that so many pundits now predict weakness for the dollar makes us uneasy.) If so, our 
mistake will be very public. The irony is that if we chose the opposite course, leaving all of Berkshire's
assets in dollars even as they declined significantly in value, no one would notice our mistake. 
John Maynard Keynes said in his masterful The General Theory: "Worldly wisdom teaches that it 
is better for reputation to fail conventionally than to succeed unconventionally." (Or, to put it in less elegant 
terms, lemmings as a class may be derided but never does an individual lemming get criticized.) From a
reputational standpoint, Charlie and I run a clear risk with our foreignexchange commitment. But we 
believe in managing Berkshire as if we owned 100% of it ourselves. And, were that the case, we would not
be following a dollaronly policy. 
Miscellaneous 
? Last year I told you about a group of University of Tennessee finance students who played a key 
role in our $1.7 billion acquisition of Clayton Homes. Earlier, they had been brought to Omaha by their professor, Al Auxier - he brings a class every year - to tour Nebraska Furniture Mart and
Borsheim's, eat at Gorat's and have a Q&A session with me at Kiewit Plaza. These visitors, like
those who come for our annual meeting, leave impressed by both the city and its friendly
residents. 
Other colleges and universities have now come calling. This school year we will have visiting 
classes, ranging in size from 30 to 100 students, from Chicago, Dartmouth (Tuck), Delaware State, 
Florida State, Indiana, Iowa, Iowa State, Maryland, Nebraska, Northwest Nazarene, Pennsylvania 
(Wharton), Stanford, Tennessee, Texas, Texas A&M, Toronto (Rotman), Union and Utah. Most
of the students are MBA candidates, and I've been impressed by their quality. They are keenly
interested in business and investments, but their questions indicate that they also have more on
their minds than simply making money. I always feel good after meeting them. 
21
At our sessions, I tell the newcomers the story of the Tennessee group and its spotting of Clayton 
Homes. I do this in the spirit of the farmer who enters his hen house with an ostrich egg and 
admonishes the flock: "I don't like to complain, girls, but this is just a small sample of what the 
competition is doing." To date, our new scouts have not brought us deals. But their mission in 
life has been made clear to them. 
? You should be aware of an accounting rule that mildly distorts our financial statements in a pain?today, gaintomorrow manner. Berkshire purchases life insurance policies from individuals and
corporations who would otherwise surrender them for cash. As the new holder of the policies, we 
pay any premiums that become due and ultimately - when the original holder dies - collect the 
face value of the policies. 
The original policyholder is usually in good health when we purchase the policy. Still, the price 
we pay for it is always well above its cash surrender value ("CSV"). Sometimes the original 
policyholder has borrowed against the CSV to make premium payments. In that case, the
remaining CSV will be tiny and our purchase price will be a large multiple of what the original
policyholder would have received, had he cashed out by surrendering it. 
Under accounting rules, we must immediately charge as a realized capital loss the excess over 
CSV that we pay upon purchasing the policy. We also must make additional charges each year for 
the amount by which the premium we pay to keep the policy in force exceeds the increase in CSV.
But obviously, we don't think these bookkeeping charges represent economic losses. If we did, 
we wouldn't buy the policies. 
During 2004, we recorded net "losses" from the purchase of policies (and from the premium payments required to maintain them) totaling $207 million, which was charged against realized
investment gains in our earnings statement (included in "other" in the table on page 17). When
the proceeds from these policies are received in the future, we will record as realized investment
gain the excess over the thenCSV. 
? Two postbubble governance reforms have been particularly useful at Berkshire, and I fault myself
for not putting them in place many years ago. The first involves regular meetings of directors 
without the CEO present. I've sat on 19 boards, and on many occasions this process would have
led to dubious plans being examined more thoroughly. In a few cases, CEO changes that were 
needed would also have been made more promptly. There is no downside to this process, and
there are many possible benefits. 
The second reform concerns the "whistleblower line," an arrangement through which employees 
can send information to me and the board's audit committee without fear of reprisal. Berkshire's
extreme decentralization makes this system particularly valuable both to me and the committee.
(In a sprawling "city" of 180,000 - Berkshire's current employee count - not every sparrow that
falls will be noticed at headquarters.) Most of the complaints we have received are of "the guy 
next to me has bad breath" variety, but on occasion I have learned of important problems at our 
subsidiaries that I otherwise would have missed. The issues raised are usually not of a type 
discoverable by audit, but relate instead to personnel and business practices. Berkshire would be more valuable today if I had put in a whistleblower line decades ago. ? Charlie and I love the idea of shareholders thinking and behaving like owners. Sometimes that
requires them to be proactive. And in this arena large institutional owners should lead the way. 
So far, however, the moves made by institutions have been less than aweinspiring. Usually, 
they've focused on minutiae and ignored the three questions that truly count. First, does the 
company have the right CEO? Second, is he/she overreaching in terms of compensation? Third,
are proposed acquisitions more likely to create or destroy pershare value?
22
On such questions, the interests of the CEO may well differ from those of the shareholders. 
Directors, moreover, sometimes lack the knowledge or gumption to overrule the CEO. Therefore, 
it's vital that large owners focus on these three questions and speak up when necessary. 
Instead many simply follow a "checklist" approach to the issue du jour. Last year I was on the
receiving end of a judgment reached in that manner. Several institutional shareholders and their 
advisors decided I lacked "independence" in my role as a director of CocaCola. One group 
wanted me removed from the board and another simply wanted me booted from the audit 
committee. 
My first impulse was to secretly fund the group behind the second idea. Why anyone would wish
to be on an audit committee is beyond me. But since directors must be assigned to one committee
or another, and since no CEO wants me on his compensation committee, it's often been my lot to get an audit committee assignment. As it turned out, the institutions that opposed me failed and I 
was reelected to the audit job. (I fought off the urge to ask for a recount.) 
Some institutions questioned my "independence" because, among other things, McLane and Dairy 
Queen buy lots of Coke products. (Do they want us to favor Pepsi?) But independence is defined 
in Webster's as "not subject to control by others." I'm puzzled how anyone could conclude that 
our Coke purchases would "control" my decisionmaking when the counterweight is the wellbeing of $8 billion of Coke stock held by Berkshire. Assuming I'm even marginally rational,
elementary arithmetic should make it clear that my heart and mind belong to the owners of Coke, 
not to its management. 
I can't resist mentioning that Jesus understood the calibration of independence far more clearly
than do the protesting institutions. In Matthew 6:21 He observed: "For where your treasure is,
there will your heart be also." Even to an institutional investor, $8 billion should qualify as
"treasure" that dwarfs any profits Berkshire might earn on its routine transactions with Coke. 
Measured by the biblical standard, the Berkshire board is a model: (a) every director is a member
of a family owning at least $4 million of stock; (b) none of these shares were acquired from 
Berkshire via options or grants; (c) no directors receive committee, consulting or board fees from 
the company that are more than a tiny portion of their annual income; and (d) although we have a 
standard corporate indemnity arrangement, we carry no liability insurance for directors. 
At Berkshire, board members travel the same road as shareholders. Charlie and I have seen much behavior confirming the Bible's "treasure" point. In our view, 
based on our considerable boardroom experience, the least independent directors are likely to be
those who receive an important fraction of their annual income from the fees they receive for 
board service (and who hope as well to be recommended for election to other boards and thereby
to boost their income further). Yet these are the very board members most often classed as
"independent."
Most directors of this type are decent people and do a firstclass job. But they wouldn't be human 
if they weren't tempted to thwart actions that would threaten their livelihood. Some may go on to
succumb to such temptations. 
Let's look at an example based upon circumstantial evidence. I have firsthand knowledge of a 
recent acquisition proposal (not from Berkshire) that was favored by management, blessed by the
company's investment banker and slated to go forward at a price above the level at which the 
stock had sold for some years (or now sells for). In addition, a number of directors favored the transaction and wanted it proposed to shareholders. 
23
Several of their brethren, however, each of whom received board and committee fees totaling 
about $100,000 annually, scuttled the proposal, which meant that shareholders never learned of 
this multibillion offer. Nonmanagement directors owned little stock except for shares they had
received from the company. Their openmarket purchases in recent years had meanwhile been 
nominal, even though the stock had sold far below the acquisition price proposed. In other words,
these directors didn't want the shareholders to be offered X even though they had consistently declined the opportunity to buy stock for their own account at a fraction of X. 
I don't know which directors opposed letting shareholders see the offer. But I do know that 
$100,000 is an important portion of the annual income of some of those deemed "independent,"
clearly meeting the Matthew 6:21 definition of "treasure." If the deal had gone through, these fees
would have ended.
Neither the shareholders nor I will ever know what motivated the dissenters. Indeed they
themselves will not likely know, given that selfinterest inevitably blurs introspection. We do know one thing, though: At the same meeting at which the deal was rejected, the board voted itself 
a significant increase in directors' fees. 
? While we are on the subject of selfinterest, let's turn again to the most important accounting
mechanism still available to CEOs who wish to overstate earnings: the nonexpensing of stock 
options. The accomplices in perpetuating this absurdity have been many members of Congress
who have defied the arguments put forth by all Big Four auditors, all members of the Financial
Accounting Standards Board and virtually all investment professionals. 
I'm enclosing an oped piece I wrote for The Washington Post describing a truly breathtaking bill that was passed 312111 by the House last summer. Thanks to Senator Richard Shelby, the Senate didn't ratify the House's foolishness. And, to his great credit, Bill Donaldson, the investor?minded Chairman of the SEC, has stood firm against massive political pressure, generated by the
checkwaving CEOs who first muscled Congress in 1993 about the issue of option accounting and 
then repeated the tactic last year. 
Because the attempts to obfuscate the stockoption issue continue, it's worth pointing out that no 
one - neither the FASB, nor investors generally, nor I - are talking about restricting the use of
options in any way. Indeed, my successor at Berkshire may well receive much of his pay via
options, albeit logicallystructured ones in respect to 1) an appropriate strike price, 2) an escalation 
in price that reflects the retention of earnings, and 3) a ban on his quickly disposing of any shares 
purchased through options. We cheer arrangements that motivate managers, whether these be
cash bonuses or options. And if a company is truly receiving value for the options it issues, we 
see no reason why recording their cost should cut down on their use. 
The simple fact is that certain CEOs know their own compensation would be far more rationally 
determined if options were expensed. They also suspect that their stock would sell at a lower price 
if realistic accounting were employed, meaning that they would reap less in the market when they
unloaded their personal holdings. To these CEOs such unpleasant prospects are a fate to be fought
with all the resources they have at hand - even though the funds they use in that fight normally 
don't belong to them, but are instead put up by their shareholders. 
Optionexpensing is scheduled to become mandatory on June 15th. You can therefore expect 
intensified efforts to stall or emasculate this rule between now and then. Let your Congressman
and Senators know what you think on this issue. 
24
The Annual Meeting
There are two changes this year concerning the annual meeting. First, we have scheduled the
meeting for the last Saturday in April (the 30th), rather than the usual first Saturday in May. This year 
Mother's Day falls on May 8, and it would be unfair to ask the employees of Borsheim's and Gorat's to
take care of us at that special time - so we've moved everything up a week. Next year we'll return to our
regular timing, holding the meeting on May 6, 2006. 
Additionally, we are changing the sequence of events on meeting day, April 30. Just as always, 
the doors will open at the Qwest Center at 7 a.m. and the movie will be shown at 8:30. At 9:30, however,
we will go directly to the question and answer period, which (allowing for lunch at the Qwest's stands) will
last until 3:00. Then, after a short recess, Charlie and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:15. 
We have made this change because a number of shareholders complained last year about the time
consumed by two speakers who advocated proposals of limited interest to the majority of the audience - 
and who were no doubt relishing their chance to talk to a captive group of about 19,500. With our new 
procedure, those shareholders who wish to hear it all can stick around for the formal meeting and those who don't can leave - or better yet shop. 
There will be plenty of opportunity for that pastime in the vast exhibition hall that adjoins the 
meeting area. Kelly Muchemore, the Flo Ziegfeld of Berkshire, put on a magnificent shopping
extravaganza last year, and she says that was just a warmup for this year. (Kelly, I am delighted to report,
is getting married in October. I'm giving her away and suggested that she make a little history by holding 
the wedding at the annual meeting. She balked, however, when Charlie insisted that he be the ringbearer.) 
Again we will showcase a 2,100 square foot Clayton home (featuring Acme brick, Shaw carpet, 
Johns Manville insulation, MiTek fasteners, Carefree awnings and NFM furniture). Take a tour through
the home. Better yet, buy it. 
GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of 
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a 
special shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 45 of the 50 jurisdictions in
which we operate. Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save you 
money.
On Saturday, at the Omaha airport, we will have the usual array of aircraft from NetJets? 
available for your inspection. Stop by the NetJets booth at the Qwest to learn about viewing these planes. 
Come to Omaha by bus; leave in your new plane. 
The Bookworm shop did a terrific business last year selling Berkshirerelated books. Displaying 18 titles, they sold 2,920 copies for $61,000. Since we charge the shop no rent (I must be getting soft), it 
gives shareholders a 20% discount. This year I've asked The Bookworm to add Graham Allison's Nuclear
Terrorism: The Ultimate Preventable Catastrophe, a mustread for those concerned with the safety of our
country. In addition, the shop will premiere Poor Charlie's Almanack, a book compiled by Peter Kaufman. 
Scholars have for too long debated whether Charlie is the reincarnation of Ben Franklin. This book should 
settle the question.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain
the credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car 
reservations, we have again signed up American Express (8007996634) to give you special help. They do
a terrific job for us each year, and I thank them for it. 
At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, 
we will again be having "Berkshire Weekend" pricing. We initiated this special event at NFM eight years 
ago, and sales during the "Weekend" grew from $5.3 million in 1997 to $25.1 million in 2004 (up 45%
25
from a year earlier). Every year has set a new record, and on Saturday of last year, we had the largest
singleday sales in NFM's history - $6.1 million. 
To get the discount, you must make your purchases between Thursday, April 28 and Monday, 
May 2 inclusive, and also present your meeting credential. The period's special pricing will even apply to
the products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against discounting but that, in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. We appreciate their 
cooperation. NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on
Sunday. On Saturday this year, from 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. we are having a special affair for shareholders
only. I'll be there, eating barbeque and drinking Coke. 
Borsheim's - the largest jewelry store in the country except for Tiffany's Manhattan store - will 
have two shareholderonly events. The first will be a cocktail reception from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Friday, 
April 29. The second, the main gala, will be from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Sunday, May 1. On Saturday, we 
will be open until 6 p.m. 
We will have huge crowds at Borsheim's throughout the weekend. For your convenience, 
therefore, shareholder prices will be available from Monday, April 25 through Saturday, May 7. During 
that period, just identify yourself as a shareholder through your meeting credentials or a brokerage 
statement. 
Borsheim's operates on a gross margin that is fully twenty percentage points below that of its 
major rivals, even before the shareholders' discount. Last year, business over the weekend increased 73% 
from 2003, setting a record that will be tough to beat. Show me it can be done. 
In a tent outside of Borsheim's, Patrick Wolff, twice U.S. chess champion, will take on all comers 
in groups of six - blindfolded. Additionally, we will have Bob Hamman and Sharon Osberg, two of the 
world's top bridge experts, available to play with our shareholders on Sunday afternoon. They plan to keep 
their eyes open - but Bob never sorts his cards, even when playing for a national championship. 
Gorat's - my favorite steakhouse - will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on
Sunday, May 1, and will be serving from 4 p.m. until 10 p.m. Please remember that to come to Gorat's on
that day, you must have a reservation. To make one, call 4025513733 on April 1 (but not before). If 
Sunday is sold out, try Gorat's on one of the other evenings you will be in town. Enhance your reputation 
as an epicure by ordering, as I do, a rare Tbone with a double helping of hash browns. 
We will again have a special reception from 4:00 to 5:30 on Saturday afternoon for shareholders 
who have come from outside of North America. Every year our meeting draws many people from around the globe, and Charlie and I want to be sure we personally greet those who have come so far. Last year we
enjoyed meeting more than 400 of you including at least 100 from Australia. Any shareholder who comes
from other than the U.S. or Canada will be given a special credential and instructions for attending this
function. Charlie and I are lucky. We have jobs that we love and are helped every day in a myriad of ways by talented and cheerful associates. No wonder we tapdance to work. But nothing is more fun for us than
getting together with our shareholderpartners at Berkshire's annual meeting. So join us on April 30th at the
Qwest for our annual Woodstock for Capitalists.
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:  Our gain in net worth during 2005 was $5.6 billion, which increased the pershare book value of 
both our Class A and Class B stock by 6.4%. Over the last 41 years (that is, since present management
took over) book value has grown from $19 to $59,377, a rate of 21.5% compounded annually. 
Berkshire had a decent year in 2005. We initiated five acquisitions (two of which have yet to
close) and most of our operating subsidiaries prospered. Even our insurance business in its entirety did
well, though Hurricane Katrina inflicted record losses on both Berkshire and the industry. We estimate our 
loss from Katrina at $2.5 billion - and her ugly sisters, Rita and Wilma, cost us an additional $.9 billion. 
Credit GEICO - and its brilliant CEO, Tony Nicely - for our stellar insurance results in a disasterridden year. One statistic stands out: In just two years, GEICO improved its productivity by 32%. 
Remarkably, employment fell by 4% even as policy count grew by 26% - and more gains are in store. 
When we drive unit costs down in such a dramatic manner, we can offer evergreater value to our
customers. The payoff: Last year, GEICO gained marketshare, earned commendable profits and 
strengthened its brand. If you have a new son or grandson in 2006, name him Tony. My goal in writing this report is to give you the information you need to estimate Berkshire's 
intrinsic value. I say "estimate" because calculations of intrinsic value, though allimportant, are
necessarily imprecise and often seriously wrong. The more uncertain the future of a business, the more
possibility there is that the calculation will be wildly offbase. (For an explanation of intrinsic value, see 
pages 77 - 78.) Here Berkshire has some advantages: a wide variety of relativelystable earnings streams, 
combined with great liquidity and minimum debt. These factors mean that Berkshire's intrinsic value can
be more precisely calculated than can the intrinsic value of most companies. 
Yet if precision is aided by Berkshire's financial characteristics, the job of calculating intrinsic 
value has been made more complex by the mere presence of so many earnings streams. Back in 1965, 
when we owned only a small textile operation, the task of calculating intrinsic value was a snap. Now we 
own 68 distinct businesses with widely disparate operating and financial characteristics. This array of 
unrelated enterprises, coupled with our massive investment holdings, makes it impossible for you to simply
examine our consolidated financial statements and arrive at an informed estimate of intrinsic value. 
We have attempted to ease this problem by clustering our businesses into four logical groups, each of which we discuss later in this report. In these discussions, we will provide the key figures for both the 
group and its important components. Of course, the value of Berkshire may be either greater or less than
the sum of these four parts. The outcome depends on whether our many units function better or worse by
being part of a larger enterprise and whether capital allocation improves or deteriorates when it is under the 
direction of a holding company. In other words, does Berkshire ownership bring anything to the party, or
would our shareholders be better off if they directly owned shares in each of our 68 businesses? These are
important questions but ones that you will have to answer for yourself. 
Before we look at our individual businesses, however, let's review two sets of figures that show
where we've come from and where we are now. The first set is the amount of investments (including cash 
and cashequivalents) we own on a pershare basis. In making this calculation, we exclude investments 
held in our finance operation because these are largely offset by borrowings: In addition to these marketable securities, which with minor exceptions are held in our insurance 
companies, we own a wide variety of noninsurance businesses. Below, we show the pretax earnings 
(excluding goodwill amortization) of these businesses, again on a pershare basis When growth rates are under discussion, it will pay you to be suspicious as to why the beginning 
and terminal years have been selected. If either year was aberrational, any calculation of growth will be 
distorted. In particular, a base year in which earnings were poor can produce a breathtaking, but
meaningless, growth rate. In the table above, however, the base year of 1965 was abnormally good; 
Berkshire earned more money in that year than it did in all but one of the previous ten. As you can see from the two tables, the comparative growth rates of Berkshire's two elements of
value have changed in the last decade, a result reflecting our everincreasing emphasis on business
acquisitions. Nevertheless, Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman and my partner, and I want to 
increase the figures in both tables. In this ambition, we hope - metaphorically - to avoid the fate of the
elderly couple who had been romantically challenged for some time. As they finished dinner on their 50th
anniversary, however, the wife - stimulated by soft music, wine and candlelight - felt a longabsent tickle 
and demurely suggested to her husband that they go upstairs and make love. He agonized for a moment
and then replied, "I can do one or the other, but not both." 
Acquisitions 
Over the years, our current businesses, in aggregate, should deliver modest growth in operating 
earnings. But they will not in themselves produce truly satisfactory gains. We will need major acquisitions to get that job done. 
In this quest, 2005 was encouraging. We agreed to five purchases: two that were completed last 
year, one that closed after yearend and two others that we expect to close soon. None of the deals involve 
the issuance of Berkshire shares. That's a crucial, but often ignored, point: When a management proudly
acquires another company for stock, the shareholders of the acquirer are concurrently selling part of their
interest in everything they own. I've made this kind of deal a few times myself - and, on balance, my
actions have cost you money. Here are last year's purchases: 
? On June 30 we bought Medical Protective Company ("MedPro"), a 106yearold medical
malpractice insurer based in Fort Wayne. Malpractice insurance is tough to underwrite and has 
proved to be a graveyard for many insurers. MedPro nevertheless should do well. It will have the 
attitudinal advantage that all Berkshire insurers share, wherein underwriting discipline trumps all
other goals. Additionally, as part of Berkshire, MedPro has financial strength far exceeding that of
its competitors, a quality assuring doctors that longtosettle claims will not end up back on their 
doorstep because their insurer failed. Finally, the company has a smart and energetic CEO, Tim 
Kenesey, who instinctively thinks like a Berkshire manager. 
? Forest River, our second acquisition, closed on August 31. A couple of months earlier, on June
21, I received a twopage fax telling me - point by point - why Forest River met the acquisition 
criteria we set forth on page 25 of this report. I had not before heard of the company, a 
recreational vehicle manufacturer with $1.6 billion of sales, nor of Pete Liegl, its owner and 
manager. But the fax made sense, and I immediately asked for more figures. These came the next
morning, and that afternoon I made Pete an offer. On June 28, we shook hands on a deal.
Pete is a remarkable entrepreneur. Some years back, he sold his business, then far smaller than
today, to an LBO operator who promptly began telling him how to run the place. Before long, 
Pete left, and the business soon sunk into bankruptcy. Pete then repurchased it. You can be sure
that I won't be telling Pete how to manage his operation. 
Forest River has 60 plants, 5,400 employees and has consistently gained share in the RV business,
while also expanding into other areas such as boats. Pete is 61 - and definitely in an acceleration 
mode. Read the piece from RV Business that accompanies this report, and you'll see why Pete and 
Berkshire are made for each other. On November 12, 2005, an article ran in The Wall Street Journal dealing with Berkshire's unusual
acquisition and managerial practices. In it Pete declared, "It was easier to sell my business than to 
renew my driver's license." 
In New York, Cathy Baron Tamraz read the article, and it struck a chord. On November 21, she 
sent me a letter that began, "As president of Business Wire, I'd like to introduce you to my
company, as I believe it fits the profile of Berkshire Hathaway subsidiary companies as detailed in
a recent Wall Street Journal article." 
By the time I finished Cathy's twopage letter, I felt Business Wire and Berkshire were a fit. I
particularly liked her penultimate paragraph: "We run a tight ship and keep unnecessary spending 
under wraps. No secretaries or management layers here. Yet we'll invest big dollars to gain a
technological advantage and move the business forward." 
I promptly gave Cathy a call, and before long Berkshire had reached agreement with Business 
Wire's controlling shareholder, Lorry Lokey, who founded the company in 1961 (and who had 
just made Cathy CEO). I love success stories like Lorry's. Today 78, he has built a company that 
disseminates information in 150 countries for 25,000 clients. His story, like those of many
entrepreneurs who have selected Berkshire as a home for their life's work, is an example of what
can happen when a good idea, a talented individual and hard work converge. 
 In December we agreed to buy 81% of Applied Underwriters, a company that offers a combination 
of payroll services and workers' compensation insurance to small businesses. A majority of
Applied's customers are located in California. 
5
In 1998, though, when the company had 12 employees, it acquired an Omahabased operation
with 24 employees that offered a somewhatsimilar service. Sid Ferenc and Steve Menzies, who have built Applied's remarkable business, concluded that Omaha had many advantages as an 
operational base - a brilliant insight, I might add - and today 400 of the company's 479 
employees are located here. 
Less than a year ago, Applied entered into a large reinsurance contract with Ajit Jain, the 
extraordinary manager of National Indemnity's reinsurance division. Ajit was impressed by Sid 
and Steve, and they liked Berkshire's method of operation. So we decided to join forces. We are
pleased that Sid and Steve retain 19% of Applied. They started on a shoestring only 12 years ago,
and it will be fun to see what they can accomplish with Berkshire's backing. 
Last spring, MidAmerican Energy, our 80.5% owned subsidiary, agreed to buy PacifiCorp, a 
major electric utility serving six Western states. An acquisition of this sort requires many regulatory approvals, but we've now obtained these and expect to close this transaction soon. 
Berkshire will then buy $3.4 billion of MidAmerican's common stock, which MidAmerican will 
supplement with $1.7 billion of borrowing to complete the purchase. You can't expect to earn 
outsized profits in regulated utilities, but the industry offers owners the opportunity to deploy large 
sums at fair returns - and therefore, it makes good sense for Berkshire. A few years back, I said 
that we hoped to make some very large purchases in the utility field. Note the plural - we'll be
looking for more. 
In addition to buying these new operations, we continue to make "bolton" acquisitions. Some
aren't so small: Shaw, our carpet operation, spent about $550 million last year on two purchases that
furthered its vertical integration and should improve its profit margin in the future. XTRA and Clayton
Homes also made valueenhancing acquisitions. 
Unlike many business buyers, Berkshire has no "exit strategy." We buy to keep. We do, though, have an entrance strategy, looking for businesses in this country or abroad that meet our six criteria and are
available at a price that will produce a reasonable return. If you have a business that fits, give me a call.
Like a hopeful teenage girl, I'll be waiting by the phone. 
Insurance 
Let's now talk about our four sectors and start with insurance, our core business. What counts 
here is the amount of "float" and its cost over time. 
For new readers, let me explain. "Float" is money that doesn't belong to us but that we 
temporarily hold. Most of our float arises because (1) premiums are paid upfront though the service we
provide - insurance protection - is delivered over a period that usually covers a year and; (2) loss events
that occur today do not always result in our immediately paying claims, because it sometimes takes many 
years for losses to be reported (asbestos losses would be an example), negotiated and settled. The $20
million of float that came with our 1967 entry into insurance has now increased - both by way of internal
growth and acquisitions - to $49 billion.
Float is wonderful - if it doesn't come at a high price. Its cost is determined by underwriting 
results, meaning how the expenses and losses we will ultimately pay compare with the premiums we have
received. When an insurer earns an underwriting profit - as has been the case at Berkshire in about half of 
the 39 years we have been in the insurance business - float is better than free. In such years, we are
actually paid for holding other people's money. For most insurers, however, life has been far more
difficult: In aggregate, the propertycasualty industry almost invariably operates at an underwriting loss. 
When that loss is large, float becomes expensive, sometimes devastatingly so. 
6
In 2004 our float cost us less than nothing, and I told you that we had a chance - absent a megacatastrophe - of nocost float in 2005. But we had the megacat, and as a specialist in that coverage, 
Berkshire suffered hurricane losses of $3.4 billion. Nevertheless, our float was costless in 2005 because of
the superb results we had in our other insurance activities, particularly at GEICO. Auto policies in force grew by 12.1% at GEICO, a gain increasing its market share of U.S. private 
passenger auto business from about 5.6% to about 6.1%. Auto insurance is a big business: Each sharepoint equates to $1.6 billion in sales. 
While our brand strength is not quantifiable, I believe it also grew significantly. When Berkshire 
acquired control of GEICO in 1996, its annual advertising expenditures were $31 million. Last year we
were up to $502 million. And I can't wait to spend more. 
Our advertising works because we have a great story to tell: More people can save money by 
insuring with us than is the case with any other national carrier offering policies to all comers. (Some
specialized auto insurers do particularly well for applicants fitting into their niches; also, because our
national competitors use rating systems that differ from ours, they will sometimes beat our price.) Last 
year, we achieved by far the highest conversion rate - the percentage of internet and phone quotes turned
into sales - in our history. This is powerful evidence that our prices are more attractive relative to the
competition than ever before. Test us by going to GEICO.com or by calling 8008477536. Be sure to 
indicate you are a shareholder because that fact will often qualify you for a discount. 
I told you last year about GEICO's entry into New Jersey in August, 2004. Drivers in that state 
love us. Our retention rate there for new policyholders is running higher than in any other state, and by
sometime in 2007, GEICO is likely to become the third largest auto insurer in New Jersey. There, as 
elsewhere, our low costs allow low prices that lead to steady gains in profitable business. 
That simple formula immediately impressed me 55 years ago when I first discovered GEICO.
Indeed, at age 21, I wrote an article about the company - it's reproduced on page 24 - when its market
value was $7 million. As you can see, I called GEICO "The Security I Like Best." And that's what I still 
call it. We have major reinsurance operations at General Re and National Indemnity. The former is run 
by Joe Brandon and Tad Montross, the latter by Ajit Jain. Both units performed well in 2005 considering 
the extraordinary hurricane losses that battered the industry. 
It's an open question whether atmospheric, oceanic or other causal factors have dramatically
changed the frequency or intensity of hurricanes. Recent experience is worrisome. We know, for instance, 
that in the 100 years before 2004, about 59 hurricanes of Category 3 strength, or greater, hit the 
Southeastern and Gulf Coast states, and that only three of these were Category 5s. We further know that in 
2004 there were three Category 3 storms that hammered those areas and that these were followed by four 
more in 2005, one of them, Katrina, the most destructive hurricane in industry history. Moreover, there 
were three Category 5s near the coast last year that fortunately weakened before landfall. 
Was this onslaught of more frequent and more intense storms merely an anomaly? Or was it 
caused by changes in climate, water temperature or other variables we don't fully understand? And could 
these factors be developing in a manner that will soon produce disasters dwarfing Katrina? 
Joe, Ajit and I don't know the answer to these allimportant questions. What we do know is that our ignorance means we must follow the course prescribed by Pascal in his famous wager about the 
existence of God. As you may recall, he concluded that since he didn't know the answer, his personal 
gain/loss ratio dictated an affirmative conclusion. 
7
So guided, we've concluded that we should now write megacat policies only at prices far higher 
than prevailed last year - and then only with an aggregate exposure that would not cause us distress if shifts
in some important variable produce far more costly storms in the near future. To a lesser degree, we felt 
this way after 2004 - and cut back our writings when prices didn't move. Now our caution has intensified.
If prices seem appropriate, however, we continue to have both the ability and the appetite to be the largest
writer of megacat coverage in the world. Our smaller insurers, with MedPro added to the fold, delivered truly outstanding results last year. 
However, what you see in the table below does not do full justice to their performance. That's because we 
increased the loss reserves of MedPro by about $125 million immediately after our purchase. 
No one knows with any precision what amount will be required to pay the claims we inherited.
Medical malpractice insurance is a "longtail" line, meaning that claims often take many years to settle. In
addition, there are other losses that have occurred, but that we won't even hear about for some time. One 
thing, though, we have learned - the hard way - after many years in the business: Surprises in insurance are 
far from symmetrical. You are lucky if you get one that is pleasant for every ten that go the other way. 
Too often, however, insurers react to looming loss problems with optimism. They behave like the fellow in 
a switchblade fight who, after his opponent has taken a mighty swipe at his throat, exclaimed, "You never
touched me." His adversary's reply: "Just wait until you try to shake your head." 
Excluding the reserves we added for prior periods, MedPro wrote at an underwriting profit. And 
our other primary companies, in aggregate, had an underwriting profit of $324 million on $1,270 million of
volume. This is an extraordinary result, and our thanks go to Rod Eldred of Berkshire Hathaway
Homestate Companies, John Kizer of Central States Indemnity, Tom Nerney of U. S. Liability, Don Towle 
of Kansas Bankers Surety and Don Wurster of National Indemnity. 
Here's the overall tally on our underwriting and float for each major sector of insurance: Regulated Utility Business 
We have an 80.5% (fully diluted) interest in MidAmerican Energy Holdings, which owns a wide
variety of utility operations. The largest of these are (1) Yorkshire Electricity and Northern Electric, whose 3.7 million electric customers make it the third largest distributor of electricity in the U.K.; (2) 
MidAmerican Energy, which serves 706,000 electric customers, primarily in Iowa; and (3) Kern River and 
Northern Natural pipelines, which carry 7.8% of the natural gas consumed in the U.S. When our PacifiCorp
acquisition closes, we will add 1.6 million electric customers in six Western states, with Oregon and Utah
providing us the most business. This transaction will increase MidAmerican's revenues by $3.3 billion and
its assets by $14.1 billion. 8
The Public Utility Holding Company Act ("PUHCA") was repealed on August 8, 2005, a 
milestone that allowed Berkshire to convert its MidAmerican preferred stock into voting common shares on 
February 9, 2006. This conversion ended a convoluted corporate arrangement that PUHCA had forced
upon us. Now we have 83.4% of both the common stock and the votes at MidAmerican, which allows us 
to consolidate the company's income for financial accounting and tax purposes. Our true economic
interest, however, is the aforementioned 80.5%, since there are options outstanding that are sure to be 
exercised within a few years and that upon exercise will dilute our ownership.
Though our voting power has increased dramatically, the dynamics of our fourparty ownership 
have not changed at all. We view MidAmerican as a partnership among Berkshire, Walter Scott, and two 
terrific managers, Dave Sokol and Greg Abel. It's unimportant how many votes each party has; we will 
make major moves only when we are unanimous in thinking them wise. Five years of working with Dave,
Greg and Walter have underscored my original belief: Berkshire couldn't have better partners. 
You will notice that this year we have provided you with two balance sheets, one representing our 
actual figures per GAAP on December 31, 2005 (which does not consolidate MidAmerican) and one that 
reflects the subsequent conversion of our preferred. All future financial reports of Berkshire will include
MidAmerican's figures. 
Somewhat incongruously, MidAmerican owns the second largest real estate brokerage firm in the 
U.S. And it's a gem. The parent company's name is HomeServices of America, but our 19,200 agents 
operate through 18 locallybranded firms. Aided by three small acquisitions, we participated in $64 billion 
of transactions last year, up 6.5% from 2004.
Currently, the whitehot market in residential real estate of recent years is cooling down, and that
should lead to additional acquisition possibilities for us. Both we and Ron Peltier, the company's CEO,
expect HomeServices to be far larger a decade from now. 
Here are some key figures on MidAmerican's operations: Finance and Financial Products 
The star of our finance sector is Clayton Homes, masterfully run by Kevin Clayton. He does not owe his brilliant record to a rising tide: The manufacturedhousing business has been disappointing since 
Berkshire purchased Clayton in 2003. Industry sales have stagnated at 40year lows, and the recent uptick
from Katrinarelated demand will almost certainly be shortlived. In recent years, many industry
participants have suffered losses, and only Clayton has earned significant money.
In this brutal environment Clayton has bought a large amount of manufacturedhousing loans from
major banks that found them unprofitable and difficult to service. Clayton's operating expertise and 
Berkshire's financial resources have made this an excellent business for us and one in which we are 
preeminent. We presently service $17 billion of loans, compared to $5.4 billon at the time of our purchase. 
Moreover, Clayton now owns $9.6 billion of its servicing portfolio, a position built up almost entirely since
Berkshire entered the picture. 
To finance this portfolio, Clayton borrows money from Berkshire, which in turn borrows the same
amount publicly. For the use of its credit, Berkshire charges Clayton a one percentagepoint markup on its
borrowing cost. In 2005, the cost to Clayton for this arrangement was $83 million. That amount is included in "Other" income in the table on the facing page, and Clayton's earnings of $416 million are after deducting this payment. 
On the manufacturing side, Clayton has also been active. To its original base of twenty plants, it 
first added twelve more in 2004 by way of the bankruptcy purchase of Oakwood, which just a few years 
earlier was one of the largest companies in the business. Then in 2005 Clayton purchased Karsten, a four plant operation that greatly strengthens Clayton's position on the West Coast.  Long ago, Mark Twain said: "A man who tries to carry a cat home by its tail will learn a lesson
that can be learned in no other way." If Twain were around now, he might try winding up a derivatives 
business. After a few days, he would opt for cats. 
We lost $104 million pretax last year in our continuing attempt to exit Gen Re's derivative 
operation. Our aggregate losses since we began this endeavor total $404 million. 
Originally we had 23,218 contracts outstanding. By the start of 2005 we were down to 2,890. 
You might expect that our losses would have been stemmed by this point, but the blood has kept flowing. 
Reducing our inventory to 741 contracts last year cost us the $104 million mentioned above. 
Remember that the rationale for establishing this unit in 1990 was Gen Re's wish to meet the 
needs of insurance clients. Yet one of the contracts we liquidated in 2005 had a term of 100 years! It's
difficult to imagine what "need" such a contract could fulfill except, perhaps, the need of a compensation?conscious trader to have a longdated contract on his books. Long contracts, or alternatively those with 
multiple variables, are the most difficult to mark to market (the standard procedure used in accounting for 
derivatives) and provide the most opportunity for "imagination" when traders are estimating their value. 
Small wonder that traders promote them. 
A business in which huge amounts of compensation flow from assumed numbers is obviously
fraught with danger. When two traders execute a transaction that has several, sometimes esoteric, variables 
and a faroff settlement date, their respective firms must subsequently value these contracts whenever they 
calculate their earnings. A given contract may be valued at one price by Firm A and at another by Firm B.
You can bet that the valuation differences - and I'm personally familiar with several that were huge - tend
to be tilted in a direction favoring higher earnings at each firm. It's a strange world in which two parties 
can carry out a paper transaction that each can promptly report as profitable. 
I dwell on our experience in derivatives each year for two reasons. One is personal and 
unpleasant. The hard fact is that I have cost you a lot of money by not moving immediately to close down
10
Gen Re's trading operation. Both Charlie and I knew at the time of the Gen Re purchase that it was a 
problem and told its management that we wanted to exit the business. It was my responsibility to make
sure that happened. Rather than address the situation head on, however, I wasted several years while we 
attempted to sell the operation. That was a doomed endeavor because no realistic solution could have
extricated us from the maze of liabilities that was going to exist for decades. Our obligations were
particularly worrisome because their potential to explode could not be measured. Moreover, if severe
trouble occurred, we knew it was likely to correlate with problems elsewhere in financial markets. 
So I failed in my attempt to exit painlessly, and in the meantime more trades were put on the 
books. Fault me for dithering. (Charlie calls it thumbsucking.) When a problem exists, whether in personnel or in business operations, the time to act is now. 
The second reason I regularly describe our problems in this area lies in the hope that our 
experiences may prove instructive for managers, auditors and regulators. In a sense, we are a canary in this
business coal mine and should sing a song of warning as we expire. The number and value of derivative 
contracts outstanding in the world continues to mushroom and is now a multiple of what existed in 1998, 
the last time that financial chaos erupted. 
Our experience should be particularly sobering because we were a betterthanaverage candidate
to exit gracefully. Gen Re was a relatively minor operator in the derivatives field. It has had the good 
fortune to unwind its supposedly liquid positions in a benign market, all the while free of financial or other
pressures that might have forced it to conduct the liquidation in a lessthanefficient manner. Our
accounting in the past was conventional and actually thought to be conservative. Additionally, we know of
no bad behavior by anyone involved.
It could be a different story for others in the future. Imagine, if you will, one or more firms
(troubles often spread) with positions that are many multiples of ours attempting to liquidate in chaotic 
markets and under extreme, and wellpublicized, pressures. This is a scenario to which much attention
should be given now rather than after the fact. The time to have considered - and improved - the reliability 
of New Orleans' levees was before Katrina. 
When we finally wind up Gen Re Securities, my feelings about its departure will be akin to those 
expressed in a country song, "My wife ran away with my best friend, and I sure miss him a lot."Below are the results of our various finance and financial products activities: Manufacturing, Service and Retailing Operations 
Our activities in this part of Berkshire cover the waterfront. Let's look, though, at a summary 
balance sheet and earnings statement for the entire group This eclectic collection, which sells products ranging from Dilly Bars to fractional interests in 
Boeing 737s, earned a very respectable 22.2% on average tangible net worth last year. It's noteworthy also
that these operations used only minor financial leverage in achieving that return. Clearly, we own some terrific businesses. We purchased many of them, however, at substantial premiums to net worth - a point
reflected in the goodwill item shown on the balance sheet - and that fact reduces the earnings on our 
average carrying value to 10.1%. 
Here are the pretax earnings for the larger categories or units. In both our buildingproducts companies and at Shaw, we continue to be hit by rising costs for raw
materials and energy. Most of these operations are significant users of oil (or more specifically,
petrochemicals) and natural gas. And prices for these commodities have soared.
 
We, likewise, have raised prices on many products, but there are often lags before increases be?come effective. Nevertheless, both our buildingproducts operations and Shaw delivered respect?able results in 2005, a fact attributable to their strong business franchises and able managements. 
? In apparel, our largest unit, Fruit of the Loom, again increased earnings and marketshare. You 
know, of course, of our leadership position in men's and boys' underwear, in which we account 
for about 48.7% of the sales recorded by massmarketers (WalMart, Target, etc.). That's up from
44.2% in 2002, when we acquired the company. Operating from a smaller base, we have made 
still greater gains in intimate apparel for women and girls that is sold by the massmarketers, 
climbing from 13.7% of their sales in 2002 to 24.7% in 2005. A gain like that in a major category
doesn't come easy. Thank John Holland, Fruit's extraordinary CEO, for making this happen.
? I told you last year that Ben Bridge (jewelry) and R. C. Willey (home furnishings) had samestore 
sales gains far above the average of their industries. You might think that blowout figures in one 
year would make comparisons difficult in the following year. But Ed and Jon Bridge at their 
operation and Scott Hymas at R. C. Willey were more than up to this challenge. Ben Bridge had a 
6.6% samestore gain in 2005, and R. C. Willey came in at 9.9%.
Our neveronSunday approach at R. C. Willey continues to overwhelm sevenday competitors as 
we roll out stores in new markets. The Boise store, about which I was such a skeptic a few years 
back, had a 21% gain in 2005, coming off a 10% gain in 2004. Our new Reno store, opened in
November, broke out of the gate fast with sales that exceeded Boise's early pace, and we will
begin business in Sacramento in June. If this store succeeds as I expect it to, Californians will see 
many more R. C. Willey stores in the years to come. 
? In flight services, earnings improved at FlightSafety as corporate aviation continued its rebound.
To support growth, we invest heavily in new simulators. Our most recent expansion, bringing us
to 42 training centers, is a major facility at Farnborough, England that opened in September. 
When it is fully built out in 2007, we will have invested more than $100 million in the building 
and its 15 simulators. Bruce Whitman, FlightSafety's able CEO, makes sure that no competitor 
comes close to offering the breadth and depth of services that we do.
Operating results at NetJets were a different story. I said last year that this business would earn money in 2005 - and I was dead wrong. 
Our European operation, it should be noted, showed both excellent growth and a reduced loss.
Customer contracts there increased by 37%. We are the only fractionalownership operation of
any size in Europe, and our nowpervasive presence there is a key factor in making NetJets the
worldwide leader in this industry. 
Despite a large increase in customers, however, our U.S. operation dipped far into the red. Its
efficiency fell, and costs soared. We believe that our three largest competitors suffered similar
problems, but each is owned by aircraft manufacturers that may think differently than we do about 
the necessity of making adequate profits. The combined value of the fleets managed by these 
three competitors, in any case, continues to be less valuable than the fleet that we operate. 
Rich Santulli, one of the most dynamic managers I've ever met, will solve our revenue/expense 
problem. He won't do it, however, in a manner that impairs the quality of the NetJets experience. 
Both he and I are committed to a level of service, security and safety that can't be matched by
others. 
13
? Our retailing category includes See's Candies, a company we bought early in 1972 (a date making
it our oldest noninsurance business). At that time, Charlie and I immediately decided to put
Chuck Huggins, then 46, in charge. Though we were new at the game of selecting managers, 
Charlie and I hit a home run with this appointment. Chuck's love for the customer and the brand 
permeated the organization, which in his 34year tenure produced a morethantenfold increase in profits. This gain was achieved in an industry growing at best slowly and perhaps not at all. 
(Volume figures in this industry are hard to pin down.)
At yearend, Chuck turned the reins at See's over to Brad Kinstler, who previously had served 
Berkshire well while running Cypress Insurance and Fechheimer's. It's unusual for us to move
managers around, but Brad's record made him an obvious choice for the See's job. I hope Chuck
and his wife, Donna, are at the annual meeting. If they are, shareholders can join Charlie and me in giving America's number one candy maker a richlydeserved round of applause. 

Every day, in countless ways, the competitive position of each of our businesses grows either 
weaker or stronger. If we are delighting customers, eliminating unnecessary costs and improving our
products and services, we gain strength. But if we treat customers with indifference or tolerate bloat, our businesses will wither. On a daily basis, the effects of our actions are imperceptible; cumulatively, though, 
their consequences are enormous. 
When our longterm competitive position improves as a result of these almost unnoticeable
actions, we describe the phenomenon as "widening the moat." And doing that is essential if we are to have
the kind of business we want a decade or two from now. We always, of course, hope to earn more money
in the shortterm. But when shortterm and longterm conflict, widening the moat must take precedence. If 
a management makes bad decisions in order to hit shortterm earnings targets, and consequently gets
behind the eightball in terms of costs, customer satisfaction or brand strength, no amount of subsequent brilliance will overcome the damage that has been inflicted. Take a look at the dilemmas of managers in 
the auto and airline industries today as they struggle with the huge problems handed them by their 
predecessors. Charlie is fond of quoting Ben Franklin's "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of 
cure." But sometimes no amount of cure will overcome the mistakes of the past. 
Our managers focus on moatwidening - and are brilliant at it. Quite simply, they are passionate
about their businesses. Usually, they were running those long before we came along; our only function
since has been to stay out of the way. If you see these heroes - and our four heroines as well - at the 
annual meeting, thank them for the job they do for you. 

The attitude of our managers vividly contrasts with that of the young man who married a tycoon's 
only child, a decidedly homely and dull lass. Relieved, the father called in his new soninlaw after the
wedding and began to discuss the future:
"Son, you're the boy I always wanted and never had. Here's a stock certificate for 50% of the
company. You're my equal partner from now on." 
"Thanks, dad."
"Now, what would you like to run? How about sales?" 
"I'm afraid I couldn't sell water to a man crawling in the Sahara." 
"Well then, how about heading human relations?"
"I really don't care for people." 
"No problem, we have lots of other spots in the business. What would you like to do?"
"Actually, nothing appeals to me. Why don't you just buy me out?"
14
Investments 
We show below our common stock A couple of last year's changes in our portfolio occurred because of corporate events: Gillette was 
merged into Procter & Gamble, and American Express spun off Ameriprise. In addition, we substantially
increased our holdings in Wells Fargo, a company that Dick Kovacevich runs brilliantly, and established 
positions in AnheuserBusch and WalMart. 
Expect no miracles from our equity portfolio. Though we own major interests in a number of
strong, highlyprofitable businesses, they are not selling at anything like bargain prices. As a group, they
may double in value in ten years. The likelihood is that their pershare earnings, in aggregate, will grow 6
8% per year over the decade and that their stock prices will more or less match that growth. (Their managers, of course, think my expectations are too modest - and I hope they're right.) 
            
The P&GGillette merger, closing in the fourth quarter of 2005, required Berkshire to record a 
$5.0 billion pretax capital gain. This bookkeeping entry, dictated by GAAP, is meaningless from an
economic standpoint, and you should ignore it when you are evaluating Berkshire's 2005 earnings. We
didn't intend to sell our Gillette shares before the merger; we don't intend to sell our P&G shares now; and
we incurred no tax when the merger took place. 
It's hard to overemphasize the importance of who is CEO of a company. Before Jim Kilts arrived 
at Gillette in 2001, the company was struggling, having particularly suffered from capitalallocation
blunders. In the major example, Gillette's acquisition of Duracell cost Gillette shareholders billions of
dollars, a loss never made visible by conventional accounting. Quite simply, what Gillette received in 
business value in this acquisition was not equivalent to what it gave up. (Amazingly, this most
fundamental of yardsticks is almost always ignored by both managements and their investment bankers
when acquisitions are under discussion.)
15
Upon taking office at Gillette, Jim quickly instilled fiscal discipline, tightened operations and 
energized marketing, moves that dramatically increased the intrinsic value of the company. Gillette's 
merger with P&G then expanded the potential of both companies. For his accomplishments, Jim was paid 
very well - but he earned every penny. (This is no academic evaluation: As a 9.7% owner of Gillette, 
Berkshire in effect paid that proportion of his compensation.) Indeed, it's difficult to overpay the truly 
extraordinary CEO of a giant enterprise. But this species is rare. 
Too often, executive compensation in the U.S. is ridiculously out of line with performance. That 
won't change, moreover, because the deck is stacked against investors when it comes to the CEO's pay.
The upshot is that a mediocreorworse CEO - aided by his handpicked VP of human relations and a 
consultant from the everaccommodating firm of Ratchet, Ratchet and Bingo - all too often receives gobs 
of money from an illdesigned compensation arrangement. 
Take, for instance, ten year, fixedprice options (and who wouldn't?). If Fred Futile, CEO of 
Stagnant, Inc., receives a bundle of these - let's say enough to give him an option on 1% of the company - 
his selfinterest is clear: He should skip dividends entirely and instead use all of the company's earnings to 
repurchase stock. 
Let's assume that under Fred's leadership Stagnant lives up to its name. In each of the ten years 
after the option grant, it earns $1 billion on $10 billion of net worth, which initially comes to $10 per share 
on the 100 million shares then outstanding. Fred eschews dividends and regularly uses all earnings to
repurchase shares. If the stock constantly sells at ten times earnings per share, it will have appreciated 
158% by the end of the option period. That's because repurchases would reduce the number of shares to 
38.7 million by that time, and earnings per share would thereby increase to $25.80. Simply by withholding 
earnings from owners, Fred gets very rich, making a cool $158 million, despite the business itself 
improving not at all. Astonishingly, Fred could have made more than $100 million if Stagnant's earnings
had declined by 20% during the tenyear period. 
Fred can also get a splendid result for himself by paying no dividends and deploying the earnings
he withholds from shareholders into a variety of disappointing projects and acquisitions. Even if these 
initiatives deliver a paltry 5% return, Fred will still make a bundle. Specifically - with Stagnant's p/e ratio 
remaining unchanged at ten - Fred's option will deliver him $63 million. Meanwhile, his shareholders will 
wonder what happened to the "alignment of interests" that was supposed to occur when Fred was issued
options. 
A "normal" dividend policy, of course - onethird of earnings paid out, for example - produces
less extreme results but still can provide lush rewards for managers who achieve nothing.
CEOs understand this math and know that every dime paid out in dividends reduces the value of 
all outstanding options. I've never, however, seen this managerowner conflict referenced in proxy
materials that request approval of a fixedpriced option plan. Though CEOs invariably preach internally 
that capital comes at a cost, they somehow forget to tell shareholders that fixedprice options give them
capital that is free. 
It doesn't have to be this way: It's child's play for a board to design options that give effect to the
automatic buildup in value that occurs when earnings are retained. But - surprise, surprise - options of
that kind are almost never issued. Indeed, the very thought of options with strike prices that are adjusted 
for retained earnings seems foreign to compensation "experts," who are nevertheless encyclopedic about
every managementfriendly plan that exists. ("Whose bread I eat, his song I sing.") 
Getting fired can produce a particularly bountiful payday for a CEO. Indeed, he can "earn" more
in that single day, while cleaning out his desk, than an American worker earns in a lifetime of cleaning 
toilets. Forget the old maxim about nothing succeeding like success: Today, in the executive suite, the all?tooprevalent rule is that nothing succeeds like failure. 
16
Huge severance payments, lavish perks and outsized payments for hohum performance often 
occur because comp committees have become slaves to comparative data. The drill is simple: Three or so
directors - not chosen by chance - are bombarded for a few hours before a board meeting with pay
statistics that perpetually ratchet upwards. Additionally, the committee is told about new perks that other 
managers are receiving. In this manner, outlandish "goodies" are showered upon CEOs simply because of 
a corporate version of the argument we all used when children: "But, Mom, all the other kids have one." 
When comp committees follow this "logic," yesterday's most egregious excess becomes today's baseline. 
Comp committees should adopt the attitude of Hank Greenberg, the Detroit slugger and a boyhood 
hero of mine. Hank's son, Steve, at one time was a player's agent. Representing an outfielder in
negotiations with a major league club, Steve sounded out his dad about the size of the signing bonus he 
should ask for. Hank, a true payforperformance guy, got straight to the point, "What did he hit last year?" 
When Steve answered ".246," Hank's comeback was immediate: "Ask for a uniform." 
(Let me pause for a brief confession: In criticizing comp committee behavior, I don't speak as a 
true insider. Though I have served as a director of twenty public companies, only one CEO has put me on his comp committee. Hmmmm . . .)
            
My views on America's longterm problem in respect to trade imbalances, which I have laid out in
previous reports, remain unchanged. My conviction, however, cost Berkshire $955 million pretax in 2005. 
That amount is included in our earnings statement, a fact that illustrates the differing ways in which GAAP
treats gains and losses. When we have a longterm position in stocks or bonds, yeartoyear changes in
value are reflected in our balance sheet but, as long as the asset is not sold, are rarely reflected in earnings.
For example, our CocaCola holdings went from $1 billion in value early on to $13.4 billion at yearend 
1998 and have since declined to $8.1 billion - with none of these moves affecting our earnings statement. 
Longterm currency positions, however, are daily marked to market and therefore have an effect on
earnings in every reporting period. From the date we first entered into currency contracts, we are $2.0
billion in the black. 
We reduced our direct position in currencies somewhat during 2005. We partially offset this 
change, however, by purchasing equities whose prices are denominated in a variety of foreign currencies 
and that earn a large part of their profits internationally. Charlie and I prefer this method of acquiring non?dollar exposure. That's largely because of changes in interest rates: As U.S. rates have risen relative to 
those of the rest of the world, holding most foreign currencies now involves a significant negative "carry."
The carry aspect of our direct currency position indeed cost us money in 2005 and is likely to do so again in 2006. In contrast, the ownership of foreign equities is likely, over time, to create a positive carry - perhaps 
a substantial one. 
The underlying factors affecting the U.S. current account deficit continue to worsen, and no letup 
is in sight. Not only did our trade deficit - the largest and most familiar item in the current account - hit an 
alltime high in 2005, but we also can expect a second item - the balance of investment income - to soon turn negative. As foreigners increase their ownership of U.S. assets (or of claims against us) relative to
U.S. investments abroad, these investors will begin earning more on their holdings than we do on ours. 
Finally, the third component of the current account, unilateral transfers, is always negative. 
The U.S., it should be emphasized, is extraordinarily rich and will get richer. As a result, the huge
imbalances in its current account may continue for a long time without their having noticeable deleterious
effects on the U.S. economy or on markets. I doubt, however, that the situation will forever remain benign. 
Either Americans address the problem soon in a way we select, or at some point the problem will likely
address us in an unpleasant way of its own.
17
How to Minimize Investment Returns 
It's been an easy matter for Berkshire and other owners of American equities to prosper over the 
years. Between December 31, 1899 and December 31, 1999, to give a really longterm example, the Dow 
rose from 66 to 11,497. (Guess what annual growth rate is required to produce this result; the surprising
answer is at the end of this section.) This huge rise came about for a simple reason: Over the century
American businesses did extraordinarily well and investors rode the wave of their prosperity. Businesses 
continue to do well. But now shareholders, through a series of selfinflicted wounds, are in a major way
cutting the returns they will realize from their investments. 
The explanation of how this is happening begins with a fundamental truth: With unimportant
exceptions, such as bankruptcies in which some of a company's losses are borne by creditors, the most that
owners in aggregate can earn between now and Judgment Day is what their businesses in aggregate earn.
True, by buying and selling that is clever or lucky, investor A may take more than his share of the pie at the
expense of investor B. And, yes, all investors feel richer when stocks soar. But an owner can exit only by
having someone take his place. If one investor sells high, another must buy high. For owners as a whole, 
there is simply no magic - no shower of money from outer space - that will enable them to extract wealth 
from their companies beyond that created by the companies themselves. 
Indeed, owners must earn less than their businesses earn because of "frictional" costs. And that's
my point: These costs are now being incurred in amounts that will cause shareholders to earn far less than 
they historically have. 
To understand how this toll has ballooned, imagine for a moment that all American corporations
are, and always will be, owned by a single family. We'll call them the Gotrocks. After paying taxes on 
dividends, this family - generation after generation - becomes richer by the aggregate amount earned by its
companies. Today that amount is about $700 billion annually. Naturally, the family spends some of these
dollars. But the portion it saves steadily compounds for its benefit. In the Gotrocks household everyone
grows wealthier at the same pace, and all is harmonious. 
But let's now assume that a few fasttalking Helpers approach the family and persuade each of its 
members to try to outsmart his relatives by buying certain of their holdings and selling them certain others. 
The Helpers - for a fee, of course - obligingly agree to handle these transactions. The Gotrocks still own 
all of corporate America; the trades just rearrange who owns what. So the family's annual gain in wealth
diminishes, equaling the earnings of American business minus commissions paid. The more that family
members trade, the smaller their share of the pie and the larger the slice received by the Helpers. This fact
is not lost upon these brokerHelpers: Activity is their friend and, in a wide variety of ways, they urge it on. 
After a while, most of the family members realize that they are not doing so well at this new "beat mybrother" game. Enter another set of Helpers. These newcomers explain to each member of the 
Gotrocks clan that by himself he'll never outsmart the rest of the family. The suggested cure: "Hire a
manager - yes, us - and get the job done professionally." These managerHelpers continue to use the 
brokerHelpers to execute trades; the managers may even increase their activity so as to permit the brokers 
to prosper still more. Overall, a bigger slice of the pie now goes to the two classes of Helpers. 
The family's disappointment grows. Each of its members is now employing professionals. Yet
overall, the group's finances have taken a turn for the worse. The solution? More help, of course. 
It arrives in the form of financial planners and institutional consultants, who weigh in to advise the 
Gotrocks on selecting managerHelpers. The befuddled family welcomes this assistance. By now its
members know they can pick neither the right stocks nor the right stockpickers. Why, one might ask,
should they expect success in picking the right consultant? But this question does not occur to the 
Gotrocks, and the consultantHelpers certainly don't suggest it to them. 
18
The Gotrocks, now supporting three classes of expensive Helpers, find that their results get worse, 
and they sink into despair. But just as hope seems lost, a fourth group - we'll call them the hyperHelpers 
- appears. These friendly folk explain to the Gotrocks that their unsatisfactory results are occurring
because the existing Helpers - brokers, managers, consultants - are not sufficiently motivated and are
simply going through the motions. "What," the new Helpers ask, "can you expect from such a bunch of
zombies?" 
The new arrivals offer a breathtakingly simple solution: Pay more money. Brimming with self?confidence, the hyperHelpers assert that huge contingent payments - in addition to stiff fixed fees - are
what each family member must fork over in order to really outmaneuver his relatives. 
The more observant members of the family see that some of the hyperHelpers are really just 
managerHelpers wearing new uniforms, bearing sewnon sexy names like HEDGE FUND or PRIVATE
EQUITY. The new Helpers, however, assure the Gotrocks that this change of clothing is allimportant, 
bestowing on its wearers magical powers similar to those acquired by mildmannered Clark Kent when he
changed into his Superman costume. Calmed by this explanation, the family decides to pay up. 
And that's where we are today: A record portion of the earnings that would go in their entirety to owners - if they all just stayed in their rocking chairs - is now going to a swelling army of Helpers. 
Particularly expensive is the recent pandemic of profit arrangements under which Helpers receive large
portions of the winnings when they are smart or lucky, and leave family members with all of the losses -
and large fixed fees to boot - when the Helpers are dumb or unlucky (or occasionally crooked). 
A sufficient number of arrangements like this - heads, the Helper takes much of the winnings; 
tails, the Gotrocks lose and pay dearly for the privilege of doing so - may make it more accurate to call the 
family the Hadrocks. Today, in fact, the family's frictional costs of all sorts may well amount to 20% of
the earnings of American business. In other words, the burden of paying Helpers may cause American 
equity investors, overall, to earn only 80% or so of what they would earn if they just sat still and listened to
no one. 
Long ago, Sir Isaac Newton gave us three laws of motion, which were the work of genius. But Sir 
Isaac's talents didn't extend to investing: He lost a bundle in the South Sea Bubble, explaining later, "I can 
calculate the movement of the stars, but not the madness of men." If he had not been traumatized by this
loss, Sir Isaac might well have gone on to discover the Fourth Law of Motion: For investors as a whole, 
returns decrease as motion increases. 

Here's the answer to the question posed at the beginning of this section: To get very specific, the
Dow increased from 65.73 to 11,497.12 in the 20th century, and that amounts to a gain of 5.3%
compounded annually. (Investors would also have received dividends, of course.) To achieve an equal rate
of gain in the 21st century, the Dow will have to rise by December 31, 2099 to - brace yourself - precisely 
2,011,011.23. But I'm willing to settle for 2,000,000; six years into this century, the Dow has gained not at
all. 
Debt and Risk
As we consolidate MidAmerican, our new balance sheet may suggest that Berkshire has expanded
its tolerance for borrowing. But that's not so. Except for token amounts, we shun debt, turning to it for
only three purposes:
1) We occasionally use repos as a part of certain shortterm investing strategies that incorporate 
ownership of U.S. government (or agency) securities. Purchases of this kind are highly
opportunistic and involve only the most liquid of securities. A few years ago, we entered into
several interesting transactions that have since been unwound or are running off. The offsetting
debt has likewise been cut substantially and before long may be gone. 
19
2) We borrow money against portfolios of interestbearing receivables whose risk characteristics we 
understand. We did this in 2001 when we guaranteed $5.6 billion of bank debt to take over, in
partnership with Leucadia, a bankrupt Finova (which held a broad range of receivables). All of 
that debt has been repaid. More recently, we have borrowed to finance a widelydiversified, 
predictablyperforming portfolio of manufacturedhome receivables managed by Clayton. 
Alternatively, we could "securitize" - that is, sell - these receivables, but retain the servicing of 
them. If we followed this procedure, which is common in the industry, we would not show the 
debt that we do on our balance sheet, and we would also accelerate the earnings we report. In the
end, however, we would earn less money. Were market variables to change so as to favor 
securitization (an unlikely event), we could sell part of our portfolio and eliminate the related debt. 
Until then, we prefer better profits to better cosmetics. 
3) At MidAmerican, we have substantial debt, but it is that company's obligation only. Though it 
will appear on our consolidated balance sheet, Berkshire does not guarantee it.
Even so, this debt is unquestionably secure because it is serviced by MidAmerican's diversified 
stream of highlystable utility earnings. If there were to be some bolt from the blue that hurt one of MidAmerican's utility properties, earnings from the others would still be more than ample to
cover all debt requirements. Moreover, MidAmerican retains all of its earnings, an equity?building practice that is rare in the utility field.
From a risk standpoint, it is far safer to have earnings from ten diverse and uncorrelated utility
operations that cover interest charges by, say, a 2:1 ratio than it is to have far greater coverage 
provided by a single utility. A catastrophic event can render a single utility insolvent - witness 
what Katrina did to the local electric utility in New Orleans - no matter how conservative its debt
policy. A geographical disaster - say, an earthquake in a Western state - can't have the same
effect on MidAmerican. And even a worrier like Charlie can't think of an event that would 
systemically decrease utility earnings in any major way. Because of MidAmerican's ever?widening diversity of regulated earnings, it will always utilize major amounts of debt. 
And that's about it. We are not interested in incurring any significant debt at Berkshire for 
acquisitions or operating purposes. Conventional business wisdom, of course, would argue that we are 
being too conservative and that there are added profits that could be safely earned if we injected moderate
leverage into our balance sheet. 
Maybe so. But many of Berkshire's hundreds of thousands of investors have a large portion of their net worth in our stock (among them, it should be emphasized, a large number of our board and key
managers) and a disaster for the company would be a disaster for them. Moreover, there are people who 
have been permanently injured to whom we owe insurance payments that stretch out for fifty years or 
more. To these and other constituencies we have promised total security, whatever comes: financial panics,
stockexchange closures (an extended one occurred in 1914) or even domestic nuclear, chemical or 
biological attacks. 
We are quite willing to accept huge risks. Indeed, more than any other insurer, we write highlimit policies that are tied to single catastrophic events. We also own a large investment portfolio whose market 
value could fall dramatically and quickly under certain conditions (as happened on October 19, 1987). 
Whatever occurs, though, Berkshire will have the net worth, the earnings streams and the liquidity to
handle the problem with ease. 
Any other approach is dangerous. Over the years, a number of very smart people have learned the hard way that a long string of impressive numbers multiplied by a single zero always equals zero. That is 
not an equation whose effects I would like to experience personally, and I would like even less to be
responsible for imposing its penalties upon others. 
20
Management Succession 
As owners, you are naturally concerned about whether I will insist on continuing as CEO after I begin to fade and, if so, how the board will handle that problem. You also want to know what happens if I 
should die tonight. 
That second question is easy to answer. Most of our many businesses have strong market
positions, significant momentum, and terrific managers. The special Berkshire culture is deeply ingrained
throughout our subsidiaries, and these operations won't miss a beat when I die. 
Moreover, we have three managers at Berkshire who are reasonably young and fully capable of
being CEO. Any of the three would be much better at certain management aspects of my job than I. On
the minus side, none has my crossover experience that allows me to be comfortable making decisions in
either the business arena or in investments. That problem will be solved by having another person in the organization handle marketable securities. That's an interesting job at Berkshire, and the new CEO will
have no problem in hiring a talented individual to do it. Indeed, that's what we have done at GEICO for 26
years, and our results have been terrific. 
Berkshire's board has fully discussed each of the three CEO candidates and has unanimously
agreed on the person who should succeed me if a replacement were needed today. The directors stay 
updated on this subject and could alter their view as circumstances change - new managerial stars may 
emerge and present ones will age. The important point is that the directors know now - and will always
know in the future - exactly what they will do when the need arises. 
The other question that must be addressed is whether the Board will be prepared to make a change
if that need should arise not from my death but rather from my decay, particularly if this decay is
accompanied by my delusionally thinking that I am reaching new peaks of managerial brilliance. That
problem would not be unique to me. Charlie and I have faced this situation from time to time at
Berkshire's subsidiaries. Humans age at greatly varying rates - but sooner or later their talents and vigor decline. Some managers remain effective well into their 80s - Charlie is a wonder at 82 - and others
noticeably fade in their 60s. When their abilities ebb, so usually do their powers of selfassessment.
Someone else often needs to blow the whistle. 
When that time comes for me, our board will have to step up to the job. From a financial 
standpoint, its members are unusually motivated to do so. I know of no other board in the country in which
the financial interests of directors are so completely aligned with those of shareholders. Few boards even
come close. On a personal level, however, it is extraordinarily difficult for most people to tell someone, 
particularly a friend, that he or she is no longer capable. 
If I become a candidate for that message, however, our board will be doing me a favor by delivering it. Every share of Berkshire that I own is destined to go to philanthropies, and I want society to 
reap the maximum good from these gifts and bequests. It would be a tragedy if the philanthropic potential 
of my holdings was diminished because my associates shirked their responsibility to (tenderly, I hope) 
show me the door. But don't worry about this. We have an outstanding group of directors, and they will 
always do what's right for shareholders. 
And while we are on the subject, I feel terrific. 
The Annual Meeting
Our meeting this year will be on Saturday, May 6. As always, the doors will open at the Qwest 
Center at 7 a.m., and the latest Berkshire movie will be shown at 8:30. At 9:30 we will go directly to the 
questionandanswer period, which (with a break for lunch at the Qwest's stands) will last until 3:00. Then, 
after a short recess, Charlie and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:15. This schedule worked well last
year, because it let those who wanted to attend the formal session to do so, while freeing others to shop. 
21
You certainly did your share in this respect last year. The 194,300 square foot hall adjoining the 
meeting area was filled with the products of Berkshire subsidiaries, and the 21,000 people who came to the
meeting allowed every location to rack up sales records. Kelly Broz (ne?Muchemore), the Flo Ziegfeld of 
Berkshire, orchestrates both this magnificent shopping extravaganza and the meeting itself. The exhibitors 
love her, and so do I. Kelly got married in October, and I gave her away. She asked me how I wanted to
be listed in the wedding program. I replied "envious of the groom," and that's the way it went to press. 
This year we will showcase two Clayton homes (featuring Acme brick, Shaw carpet, Johns 
Manville insulation, MiTek fasteners, Carefree awnings and NFM furniture). You will find that these
homes, priced at $79,000 and $89,000, deliver excellent value. In fact, three shareholders came so firmly 
to that conclusion last year that they bought the $119,000 model we then showcased. Flanking the Clayton 
homes on the exhibition floor will be RVs from Forest River. 
GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of 
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a 
special shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 45 of the 50 jurisdictions in
which we operate. (One supplemental point: The discount is not additive if you qualify for another, such as
that given certain groups.) Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save 
you money. For at least 50% of you, I believe we can. And while you're at it, sign up for the new GEICO 
credit card. It's the one I now use.
On Saturday, at the Omaha airport, we will have the usual array of aircraft from NetJets? 
available for your inspection. Stop by the NetJets booth at the Qwest to learn about viewing these planes. 
Come to Omaha by bus; leave in your new plane. 
The Bookworm boutique at the Qwest broke all records last year selling Berkshirerelated books.
An amazing 3,500 of these were Poor Charlie's Almanack, the collected wisdom of my partner. This
means that a copy was sold every 9 seconds. And for good reason: You will never find a book with more
useful ideas. Wordofmouth recommendations have caused Charlie's first printing of 20,500 copies to sell
out, and we will therefore have a revised and expanded edition on sale at our meeting. Among the other 22
titles and DVDs available last year at the Bookworm, 4,597 copies were sold for $84,746. Our 
shareholders are a bookseller's dream. 
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain
the credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car 
reservations, we have again signed up American Express (8007996634) to give you special help. Carol 
Pedersen, who handles these matters, does a terrific job for us each year, and I thank her for it. 
At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, 
we will again be having "Berkshire Weekend" pricing. We initiated this special event at NFM nine years 
ago, and sales during the "Weekend" grew from $5.3 million in 1997 to $27.4 million in 2005 (up 9% from
a year earlier). I get goose bumps just thinking about this volume. 
To obtain the discount, you must make your purchases between Thursday, May 4 and Monday, 
May 8 inclusive, and also present your meeting credential. The period's special pricing will even apply to
the products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against discounting but that, in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. We appreciate their 
cooperation. NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on
Sunday. On Saturday this year, from 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m., we are having a special affair for shareholders 
only. I'll be there, eating barbeque, drinking Coke, and counting sales. 
Borsheim's again will have two shareholderonly events. The first will be a cocktail reception 
from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Friday, May 5. The second, the main gala, will be from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on
Sunday, May 7. On Saturday, we will be open until 6 p.m.
22
We will have huge crowds at Borsheim's throughout the weekend. For your convenience, 
therefore, shareholder prices will be available from Monday, May 1 through Saturday, May 13. During 
that period, just identify yourself as a shareholder through your meeting credentials or a brokerage 
statement. 
Borsheim's operates on a gross margin that, even before the shareholders' discount, is fully twenty 
percentage points below that of its major rivals. Last year, our shareholderperiod business increased 9%
from 2004, which came on top of a 73% gain the year before. The store sold 5,000 Berkshire Monopoly games - and then ran out. We've learned: Plenty will be in stock this year. 
In a tent outside of Borsheim's, Patrick Wolff, twice U.S. chess champion, will take on all comers 
in groups of six - blindfolded. Additionally, we will have Bob Hamman and Sharon Osberg, two of the 
world's top bridge experts, available to play with our shareholders on Sunday afternoon. They plan to keep 
their eyes open - but Bob never sorts his cards, even when playing for a national championship. 
Gorat's - my favorite steakhouse - will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on
Sunday, May 7, and will be serving from 4 p.m. until 10 p.m. Please remember that to come to Gorat's on
that day, you must have a reservation. To make one, call 4025513733 on April 1 (but not before). 
In this school year, about 35 university classes will come to Omaha for sessions with me. I take
almost all - in aggregate, perhaps 2,000 students - to lunch at Gorat's. And they love it. To learn why, 
come join us on Sunday.
We will again have a special reception from 4:00 to 5:30 on Saturday afternoon for shareholders 
who have come from outside of North America. Every year our meeting draws many people from around the globe, and Charlie and I want to be sure we personally greet those who have come so far. Last year we
enjoyed meeting more than 400 of you from many dozens of countries. Any shareholder who comes from
other than the U.S. or Canada will be given a special credential and instructions for attending this function. 

Charlie and I are extraordinarily lucky. We were born in America; had terrific parents who saw
that we got good educations; have enjoyed wonderful families and great health; and came equipped with a 
"business" gene that allows us to prosper in a manner hugely disproportionate to other people who
contribute as much or more to our society's wellbeing. Moreover, we have long had jobs that we love, in
which we are helped every day in countless ways by talented and cheerful associates. No wonder we tapdance to work. But nothing is more fun for us than getting together with our shareholderpartners at 
Berkshire's annual meeting. So join us on May 6th at the Qwest for our annual Woodstock for Capitalists.
We'll see you there.


To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.: 
 
Our gain in net worth during 2006 was $16.9 billion, which increased the pershare book value of 
both our Class A and Class B stock by 18.4%. Over the last 42 years (that is, since present management 
took over) book value has grown from $19 to $70,281, a rate of 21.4% compounded annually. 

 

We believe that $16.9 billion is a record for a oneyear gain in net worth - more than has ever 
been booked by any American business, leaving aside boosts that have occurred because of mergers (e.g., 
AOL's purchase of Time Warner). Of course, Exxon Mobil and other companies earn far more than 
Berkshire, but their earnings largely go to dividends and/or repurchases, rather than to building net worth. 

 

All that said, a confession about our 2006 gain is in order. Our most important business, 
insurance, benefited from a large dose of luck: Mother Nature, bless her heart, went on vacation. After 
hammering us with hurricanes in 2004 and 2005 - storms that caused us to lose a bundle on supercat 
insurance - she just vanished. Last year, the red ink from this activity turned black - very black. 

 

In addition, the great majority of our 73 businesses did outstandingly well in 2006. Let me focus 
for a moment on one of our largest operations, GEICO. What management accomplished there was simply 
extraordinary. 

 

As I've told you before, Tony Nicely, GEICO's CEO, went to work at the company 45 years ago, 
two months after turning 18. He became CEO in 1992, and from then on the company's growth exploded. 
In addition, Tony has delivered staggering productivity gains in recent years. Between yearend 2003 and 
yearend 2006, the number of GEICO policies increased from 5.7 million to 8.1 million, a jump of 42%. 
Yet during that same period, the company's employees (measured on a fulltimeequivalent basis) fell 3.5%. 
So productivity grew 47%. And GEICO didn't start fat. 

 

That remarkable gain has allowed GEICO to maintain its allimportant position as a lowcost 
producer, even though it has dramatically increased advertising expenditures. Last year GEICO spent $631 
million on ads, up from $238 million in 2003 (and up from $31 million in 1995, when Berkshire took 
control). Today, GEICO spends far more on ads than any of its competitors, even those much larger. We 
will continue to raise the bar. 

 

Last year I told you that if you had a new son or grandson to be sure to name him Tony. But Don 
Keough, a Berkshire director, recently had a better idea. After reviewing GEICO's performance in 2006, 
he wrote me, "Forget births. Tell the shareholders to immediately change the names of their present 
children to Tony or Antoinette." Don signed his letter "Tony." 



Charlie Munger - my partner and Berkshire's vice chairman - and I run what has turned out to be 
a big business, one with 217,000 employees and annual revenues approaching $100 billion. We certainly 
didn't plan it that way. Charlie began as a lawyer, and I thought of myself as a security analyst. Sitting in 
those seats, we both grew skeptical about the ability of big entities of any type to function well. Size seems 
to make many organizations slowthinking, resistant to change and smug. In Churchill's words: "We shape 
our buildings, and afterwards our buildings shape us." Here's a telling fact: Of the ten nonoil companies 
having the largest market capitalization in 1965 - titans such as General Motors, Sears, DuPont and 
Eastman Kodak - only one made the 2006 list. 

 

 

 All pershare figures used in this report apply to Berkshire's A shares. Figures for the B shares 
are 1/30th of those shown for the A. 


In fairness, we've seen plenty of successes as well, some truly outstanding. There are many giantcompany 
managers whom I greatly admire; Ken Chenault of American Express, Jeff Immelt of G.E. and 
Dick Kovacevich of Wells Fargo come quickly to mind. But I don't think I could do the management job 
they do. And I know I wouldn't enjoy many of the duties that come with their positions - meetings, 
speeches, foreign travel, the charity circuit and governmental relations. For me, Ronald Reagan had it 
right: "It's probably true that hard work never killed anyone - but why take the chance?" 

 

So I've taken the easy route, just sitting back and working through great managers who run their 
own shows. My only tasks are to cheer them on, sculpt and harden our corporate culture, and make major 
capitalallocation decisions. Our managers have returned this trust by working hard and effectively. 

 

For their performance over the last 42 years - and particularly for 2006 - Charlie and I thank 
them. 

 

Yardsticks 

 

 Charlie and I measure Berkshire's progress and evaluate its intrinsic value in a number of ways. 
No single criterion is effective in doing these jobs, and even an avalanche of statistics will not capture some 
factors that are important. For example, it's essential that we have managers much younger than I available 
to succeed me. Berkshire has never been in better shape in this regard - but I can't prove it to you with 
numbers. 

 

 There are two statistics, however, that are of real importance. The first is the amount of 
investments (including cash and cashequivalents) that we own on a pershare basis. Arriving at this figure, 
we exclude investments held in our finance operation because these are largely offset by borrowings. 
Here's the record since present management acquired control of Berkshire: 

 

 


 

 In our early years we put most of our retained earnings and insurance float into investments in 
marketable securities. Because of this emphasis, and because the securities we purchased generally did 
well, our growth rate in investments was for a long time quite high. 

 

 Over the years, however, we have focused more and more on the acquisition of operating 
businesses. Using our funds for these purchases has both slowed our growth in investments and accelerated 
our gains in pretax earnings from noninsurance businesses, the second yardstick we use. Here's how 
those earnings have looked: 


 

 Last year we had a good increase in noninsurance earnings - 38%. Large gains from here on in, 
though, will come only if we are able to make major, and sensible, acquisitions. That will not be easy. We 
do, however, have one advantage: More and more, Berkshire has become "the buyer of choice" for 
business owners and managers. Initially, we were viewed that way only in the U.S. (and more often than 
not by private companies). We've long wanted, nonetheless, to extend Berkshire's appeal beyond U.S. 
borders. And last year, our globetrotting finally got underway. 

 

Acquisitions 

 

 We began 2006 by completing the three acquisitions pending at yearend 2005, spending about $6 
billion for PacifiCorp, Business Wire and Applied Underwriters. All are performing very well. 

 

 The highlight of the year, however, was our July 5th acquisition of most of ISCAR, an Israeli 
company, and our new association with its chairman, Eitan Wertheimer, and CEO, Jacob Harpaz. The 
story here began on October 25, 2005, when I received a 1.page letter from Eitan, of whom I then knew 
nothing. The letter began, "I am writing to introduce you to ISCAR," and proceeded to describe a cuttingtool 
business carried on in 61 countries. Then Eitan wrote, "We have for some time considered the issues 
of generational transfer and ownership that are typical for large family enterprises, and have given much 
thought to ISCAR's future. Our conclusion is that Berkshire Hathaway would be the ideal home for 
ISCAR. We believe that ISCAR would continue to thrive as a part of your portfolio of businesses." 

 

Overall, Eitan's letter made the quality of the company and the character of its management leap 
off the page. It also made me want to learn more, and in November, Eitan, Jacob and ISCAR's CFO, 
Danny Goldman, came to Omaha. A few hours with them convinced me that if we were to make a deal, we 
would be teaming up with extraordinarily talented managers who could be trusted to run the business after 
a sale with all of the energy and dedication that they had exhibited previously. However, having never 
bought a business based outside of the U.S. (though I had bought a number of foreign stocks), I needed to 
get educated on some tax and jurisdictional matters. With that task completed, Berkshire purchased 80% of 
ISCAR for $4 billion. The remaining 20% stays in the hands of the Wertheimer family, making it our 
valued partner. 

 

 ISCAR's products are small, consumable cutting tools that are used in conjunction with large and 
expensive machine tools. It's a business without magic except for that imparted by the people who run it. 
But Eitan, Jacob and their associates are true managerial magicians who constantly develop tools that make 
their customers' machines more productive. The result: ISCAR makes money because it enables its 
customers to make more money. There is no better recipe for continued success. 


 In September, Charlie and I, along with five Berkshire associates, visited ISCAR in Israel. We - 
and I mean every one of us - have never been more impressed with any operation. At ISCAR, as 
throughout Israel, brains and energy are ubiquitous. Berkshire shareholders are lucky to have joined with 
Eitan, Jacob, Danny and their talented associates. 



 A few months later, Berkshire again became "the buyer of choice" in a deal brought to us by my 
friend, John Roach, of Fort Worth. John, many of you will remember, was Chairman of Justin Industries, 
which we bought in 2000. At that time John was helping John Justin, who was terminally ill, find a 
permanent home for his company. John Justin died soon after we bought Justin Industries, but it has since 
been run exactly as we promised him it would be. 

 

 Visiting me in November, John Roach brought along Paul Andrews, Jr., owner of about 80% of 
TTI, a Fort Worth distributor of electronic components. Over a 35year period, Paul built TTI from 
$112,000 of sales to $1.3 billion. He is a remarkable entrepreneur and operator. 

 

 Paul, 64, loves running his business. But not long ago he happened to witness how disruptive the 
death of a founder can be both to a private company's employees and the owner's family. What starts out 
as disruptive, furthermore, often evolves into destructive. About a year ago, therefore, Paul began to think 
about selling TTI. His goal was to put his business in the hands of an owner he had carefully chosen, rather 
than allowing a trust officer or lawyer to conduct an auction after his death. 

 

 Paul rejected the idea of a "strategic" buyer, knowing that in the pursuit of "synergies," an owner 
of that type would be apt to dismantle what he had so carefully built, a move that would uproot hundreds of 
his associates (and perhaps wound TTI's business in the process). He also ruled out a private equity firm, 
which would very likely load the company with debt and then flip it as soon as possible. 

 

 That left Berkshire. Paul and I met on the morning of November 15th and made a deal before 
lunch. Later he wrote me: "After our meeting, I am confident that Berkshire is the right owner for TTI . . . 
I am proud of our past and excited about our future." And so are Charlie and I. 



 We also made some "tuckin" acquisitions during 2006 at Fruit of the Loom ("Fruit"), MiTek, 
CTB, Shaw and Clayton. Fruit made the largest purchases. First, it bought Russell Corp., a leading 
producer of athletic apparel and uniforms for about $1.2 billion (including assumed debt) and in December 
it agreed to buy the intimate apparel business of VF Corp. Together, these acquisitions add about $2.2 
billion to Fruit's sales and bring with them about 23,000 employees. 

 

 Charlie and I love it when we can acquire businesses that can be placed under managers, such as 
John Holland at Fruit, who have already shown their stuff at Berkshire. MiTek, for example, has made 14 
acquisitions since we purchased it in 2001, and Gene Toombs has delivered results from these deals far in 
excess of what he had predicted. In effect, we leverage the managerial talent already with us by these tuckin 
deals. We will make many more. 



 We continue, however, to need "elephants" in order for us to use Berkshire's flood of incoming 
cash. Charlie and I must therefore ignore the pursuit of mice and focus our acquisition efforts on much 
bigger game. 

 

Our exemplar is the older man who crashed his grocery cart into that of a much younger fellow 
while both were shopping. The elderly man explained apologetically that he had lost track of his wife and 
was preoccupied searching for her. His new acquaintance said that by coincidence his wife had also 
wandered off and suggested that it might be more efficient if they jointly looked for the two women. 
Agreeing, the older man asked his new companion what his wife looked like. "She's a gorgeous blonde," 
the fellow answered, "with a body that would cause a bishop to go through a stained glass window, and 
she's wearing tight white shorts. How about yours?" The senior citizen wasted no words: "Forget her, 
we'll look for yours." 


What we are looking for is described on page 25. If you have an acquisition candidate that fits, 
call me - day or night. And then watch me shatter a stained glass window. 


 Now, let's examine the four major operating sectors of Berkshire. Lumping their financial figures 
together impedes analysis. So we'll look at them as four separate businesses, starting with the all- 
important insurance group. 

 

Insurance 

 

 Next month marks the 40th anniversary of our entrance into the insurance business. It was on 
March 9, 1967, that Berkshire purchased National Indemnity and its companion company, National Fire & 
Marine, from Jack Ringwalt for $8.6 million. 

 

 Jack was a longtime friend of mine and an excellent, but somewhat eccentric, businessman. For 
about ten minutes every year he would get the urge to sell his company. But those moods - perhaps 
brought on by a tiff with regulators or an unfavorable jury verdict - quickly vanished. 

 

 In the mid1960s, I asked investment banker Charlie Heider, a mutual friend of mine and Jack's, 
to alert me the next time Jack was "in heat." When Charlie's call came, I sped to meet Jack. We made a 
deal in a few minutes, with me waiving an audit, "due diligence" or anything else that would give Jack an 
opportunity to reconsider. We just shook hands, and that was that. 

 

 When we were due to close the purchase at Charlie's office, Jack was late. Finally arriving, he 
explained that he had been driving around looking for a parking meter with some unexpired time. That was 
a magic moment for me. I knew then that Jack was going to be my kind of manager. 

 

 When Berkshire purchased Jack's two insurers, they had "float" of $17 million. We've regularly 
offered a long explanation of float in earlier reports, which you can read on our website. Simply put, float 
is money we hold that is not ours but which we get to invest. 

 

 At the end of 2006, our float had grown to $50.9 billion, and we have since written a huge 
retroactive reinsurance contract with Equitas - which I will describe in the next section - that boosts float 
by another $7 billion. Much of the gain we've made has come through our acquisition of other insurers, 
but we've also had outstanding internal growth, particularly at Ajit Jain's amazing reinsurance operation. 
Naturally, I had no notion in 1967 that our float would develop as it has. There's much to be said for just 
putting one foot in front of the other every day. 

 

 The float from retroactive reinsurance contracts, of which we have many, automatically drifts 
down over time. Therefore, it will be difficult for us to increase float in the future unless we make new 
acquisitions in the insurance field. Whatever its size, however, the allimportant cost of Berkshire's float 
over time is likely to be significantly below that of the industry, perhaps even falling to less than zero. 
Note the words "over time." There will be bad years periodically. You can be sure of that. 

 

 In 2006, though, everything went right in insurance - really right. Our managers - Tony Nicely 
(GEICO), Ajit Jain (BH Reinsurance), Joe Brandon and Tad Montross (General Re), Don Wurster 
(National Indemnity Primary), Tom Nerney (U.S. Liability), Tim Kenesey (Medical Protective), Rod 
Eldred (Homestate Companies and Cypress), Sid Ferenc and Steve Menzies (Applied Underwriters), John 
Kizer (Central States) and Don Towle (Kansas Bankers Surety) - simply shot the lights out. When I recite 
their names, I feel as if I'm at Cooperstown, reading from the Hall of Fame roster. Of course, the overall 
insurance industry also had a terrific year in 2006. But our managers delivered results generally superior to 
those of their competitors. 


 Below is the tally on our underwriting and float for each major sector of insurance. Enjoy the 
view, because you won't soon see another like it. 

 

 
 In 2007, our results from the breadandbutter lines of insurance will deteriorate, though I think 
they will remain satisfactory. The big unknown is supercat insurance. Were the terrible hurricane seasons 
of 200405 aberrations? Or were they our planet's first warning that the climate of the 21st Century will 
differ materially from what we've seen in the past? If the answer to the second question is yes, 2006 will 
soon be perceived as a misleading period of calm preceding a series of devastating storms. These could 
rock the insurance industry. It's na.ve to think of Katrina as anything close to a worstcase event. 

 

 Neither Ajit Jain, who manages our supercat operation, nor I know what lies ahead. We do know 
that it would be a huge mistake to bet that evolving atmospheric changes are benign in their implications 
for insurers. 

 

 Don't think, however, that we have lost our taste for risk. We remain prepared to lose $6 billion 
in a single event, if we have been paid appropriately for assuming that risk. We are not willing, though, to 
take on even very small exposures at prices that don't reflect our evaluation of loss probabilities. 
Appropriate prices don't guarantee profits in any given year, but inappropriate prices most certainly 
guarantee eventual losses. Rates have recently fallen because a flood of capital has entered the supercat 
field. We have therefore sharply reduced our wind exposures. Our behavior here parallels that which we 
employ in financial markets: Be fearful when others are greedy, and be greedy when others are fearful. 

 

Lloyd's, Equitas and Retroactive Reinsurance 

 

 Last year - we are getting now to Equitas - Berkshire agreed to enter into a huge retroactive 
reinsurance contract, a policy that protects an insurer against losses that have already happened, but whose 
cost is not yet known. I'll give you details of the agreement shortly. But let's first take a journey through 
insurance history, following the route that led to our deal. 

 

 Our tale begins around 1688, when Edward Lloyd opened a small coffee house in London. 
Though no Starbucks, his shop was destined to achieve worldwide fame because of the commercial 
activities of its clientele - shipowners, merchants and venturesome British capitalists. As these parties 
sipped Edward's brew, they began to write contracts transferring the risk of a disaster at sea from the 
owners of ships and their cargo to the capitalists, who wagered that a given voyage would be completed 
without incident. These capitalists eventually became known as "underwriters at Lloyd's." 

 

 Though many people believe Lloyd's to be an insurance company, that is not the case. It is 
instead a place where many memberinsurers transact business, just as they did centuries ago. 

 

 Over time, the underwriters solicited passive investors to join in syndicates. Additionally, the 
business broadened beyond marine risks into every imaginable form of insurance, including exotic 
coverages that spread the fame of Lloyd's far and wide. The underwriters left the coffee house, found 
grander quarters and formalized some rules of association. And those persons who passively backed the 
underwriters became known as "names." 


 Eventually, the names came to include many thousands of people from around the world, who 
joined expecting to pick up some extra change without effort or serious risk. True, prospective names were 
always solemnly told that they would have unlimited and everlasting liability for the consequences of their 
syndicate's underwriting - "down to the last cufflink," as the quaint description went. But that warning 
came to be viewed as perfunctory. Three hundred years of retained cufflinks acted as a powerful sedative 
to the names poised to sign up. 

 

 Then came asbestos. When its prospective costs were added to the tidal wave of environmental 
and product claims that surfaced in the 1980s, Lloyd's began to implode. Policies written decades earlier - 
and largely forgotten about - were developing huge losses. No one could intelligently estimate their total, 
but it was certain to be many tens of billions of dollars. The specter of unending and unlimited losses 
terrified existing names and scared away prospects. Many names opted for bankruptcy; some even chose 
suicide. 

 

 From these shambles, there came a desperate effort to resuscitate Lloyd's. In 1996, the powers 
that be at the institution allotted ?11.1 billion to a new company, Equitas, and made it responsible for 
paying all claims on policies written before 1993. In effect, this plan pooled the misery of the many 
syndicates in trouble. Of course, the money allotted could prove to be insufficient - and if that happened, 
the names remained liable for the shortfall. 

 

But the new plan, by concentrating all of the liabilities in one place, had the advantage of 
eliminating much of the costly intramural squabbling that went on among syndicates. Moreover, the 
pooling allowed claims evaluation, negotiation and litigation to be handled more intelligently than had been 
the case previously. Equitas embraced Ben Franklin's thinking: "We must all hang together, or assuredly 
we shall hang separately." 

 

 From the start, many people predicted Equitas would eventually fail. But as Ajit and I reviewed 
the facts in the spring of 2006 - 13 years after the last exposed policy had been written and after the 
payment of ?11.3 billion in claims - we concluded that the patient was likely to survive. And so we 
decided to offer a huge reinsurance policy to Equitas. 

 

 Because plenty of imponderables continue to exist, Berkshire could not provide Equitas, and its 
27,972 names, unlimited protection. But we said - and I'm simplifying - that if Equitas would give us 
$7.12 billion in cash and securities (this is the float I spoke about), we would pay all of its future claims and 
expenses up to $13.9 billion. That amount was $5.7 billion above what Equitas had recently guessed its 
ultimate liabilities to be. Thus the names received a huge - and almost certainly sufficient - amount of 
future protection against unpleasant surprises. Indeed the protection is so large that Equitas plans a cash 
payment to its thousands of names, an event few of them had ever dreamed possible. 

 

 And how will Berkshire fare? That depends on how much "known" claims will end up costing us, 
how many yettobepresented claims will surface and what they will cost, how soon claim payments will 
be made and how much we earn on the cash we receive before it must be paid out. Ajit and I think the odds 
are in our favor. And should we be wrong, Berkshire can handle it. 

 

 Scott Moser, the CEO of Equitas, summarized the transaction neatly: "Names wanted to sleep 
easy at night, and we think we've just bought them the world's best mattress." 


Warning: It's time to eat your broccoli - I am now going to talk about accounting matters. I owe 
this to those Berkshire shareholders who love reading about debits and credits. I hope both of you find this 
discussion helpful. All others can skip this section; there will be no quiz. 

 

 Berkshire has done many retroactive transactions - in both number and amount a multiple of such 
policies entered into by any other insurer. We are the reinsurer of choice for these coverages because the 
obligations that are transferred to us - for example, lifetime indemnity and medical payments to be made to 
injured workers - may not be fully satisfied for 50 years or more. No other company can offer the certainty 

that Berkshire can, in terms of guaranteeing the full and fair settlement of these obligations. This fact is 
important to the original insurer, policyholders and regulators. 

 

 The accounting procedure for retroactive transactions is neither well known nor intuitive. The 
best way for shareholders to understand it, therefore, is for us to simply lay out the debits and credits. 
Charlie and I would like to see this done more often. We sometimes encounter accounting footnotes about 
important transactions that leave us baffled, and we go away suspicious that the reporting company wished 
it that way. (For example, try comprehending transactions "described" in the old 10Ks of Enron, even 
after you know how the movie ended.) 

 

So let us summarize our accounting for the Equitas transaction. The major debits will be to Cash 
and Investments, Reinsurance Recoverable, and Deferred Charges for Reinsurance Assumed ("DCRA"). 
The major credit will be to Reserve for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expense. No profit or loss will be 
recorded at the inception of the transaction, but underwriting losses will thereafter be incurred annually as 
the DCRA asset is amortized downward. The amount of the annual amortization charge will be primarily 
determined by how our endoftheyear estimates as to the timing and amount of future loss payments 
compare to the estimates made at the beginning of the year. Eventually, when the last claim has been paid, 
the DCRA account will be reduced to zero. That day is 50 years or more away. 

 

 What's important to remember is that retroactive insurance contracts always produce underwriting 
losses for us. Whether these losses are worth experiencing depends on whether the cash we have received 
produces investment income that exceeds the losses. Recently our DCRA charges have annually delivered 
$300 million or so of underwriting losses, which have been more than offset by the income we have 
realized through use of the cash we received as a premium. Absent new retroactive contracts, the amount 
of the annual charge would normally decline over time. After the Equitas transaction, however, the annual 
DCRA cost will initially increase to about $450 million a year. This means that our other insurance 
operations must generate at least that much underwriting gain for our overall float to be costfree. That 
amount is quite a hurdle but one that I believe we will clear in many, if not most, years. 

 

 Aren't you glad that I promised you there would be no quiz? 

 

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing Operations 

 

 Our activities in this part of Berkshire cover the waterfront. Let's look, though, at a summary 
balance sheet and earnings statement for the entire group. 

 


 This motley group, which sells products ranging from lollipops to motor homes, earned a pleasing 
25% on average tangible net worth last year. It's noteworthy also that these operations used only minor 
financial leverage in achieving that return. Clearly we own some terrific businesses. We purchased many 
of them, however, at large premiums to net worth - a point reflected in the goodwill item shown on the 
balance sheet - and that fact reduces the earnings on our average carrying value to 10.8%. 

 

 Here are a few newsworthy items about companies in this sector: 

 

. Bob Shaw, a remarkable entrepreneur who from a standing start built Shaw Industries into the 
country's largest carpet producer, elected last year, at age 75, to retire. To succeed him, Bob 
recommended Vance Bell, a 31year veteran at Shaw, and Bob, as usual, made the right call. 
Weakness in housing has caused the carpet business to slow. Shaw, however, remains a 
powerhouse and a major contributor to Berkshire's earnings. 


 

. MiTek, a manufacturer of connectors for roof trusses at the time we purchased it in 2001, is 
developing into a miniconglomerate. At the rate it is growing, in fact, "mini" may soon be 
inappropriate. In purchasing MiTek for $420 million, we lent the company $200 million at 9% 
and bought $198 million of stock, priced at $10,000 per share. Additionally, 55 employees bought 
2,200 shares for $22 million. Each employee paid exactly the same price that we did, in most 
cases borrowing money to do so. 


 

And are they ever glad they did! Five years later, MiTek's sales have tripled and the stock is 
valued at $71,699 per share. Despite its making 14 acquisitions, at a cost of $291 million, MiTek 
has paid off its debt to Berkshire and holds $35 million of cash. We celebrated the fifth 
anniversary of our purchase with a party in July. I told the group that it would be embarrassing if 
MiTek's stock price soared beyond that of Berkshire "A" shares. Don't be surprised, however, if 
that happens (though Charlie and I will try to make our shares a moving target). 

 

. Not all of our businesses are destined to increase profits. When an industry's underlying 
economics are crumbling, talented management may slow the rate of decline. Eventually, though, 
eroding fundamentals will overwhelm managerial brilliance. (As a wise friend told me long ago, 
"If you want to get a reputation as a good businessman, be sure to get into a good business.") And 
fundamentals are definitely eroding in the newspaper industry, a trend that has caused the profits 
of our Buffalo News to decline. The skid will almost certainly continue. 


 

When Charlie and I were young, the newspaper business was as easy a way to make huge returns 
as existed in America. As one nottoobright publisher famously said, "I owe my fortune to two 
great American institutions: monopoly and nepotism." No paper in a onepaper city, however bad 
the product or however inept the management, could avoid gushing profits. 

 

The industry's staggering returns could be simply explained. For most of the 20th Century, 
newspapers were the primary source of information for the American public. Whether the subject 
was sports, finance, or politics, newspapers reigned supreme. Just as important, their ads were the 
easiest way to find job opportunities or to learn the price of groceries at your town's supermarkets. 


The great majority of families therefore felt the need for a paper every day, but understandably 
most didn't wish to pay for two. Advertisers preferred the paper with the most circulation, and 
readers tended to want the paper with the most ads and news pages. This circularity led to a law 
of the newspaper jungle: Survival of the Fattest. 

 

Thus, when two or more papers existed in a major city (which was almost universally the case a 
century ago), the one that pulled ahead usually emerged as the standalone winner. After 
competition disappeared, the paper's pricing power in both advertising and circulation was 
unleashed. Typically, rates for both advertisers and readers would be raised annually - and the 
profits rolled in. For owners this was economic heaven. (Interestingly, though papers regularly - 
and often in a disapproving way - reported on the profitability of, say, the auto or steel industries, 
they never enlightened readers about their own Midaslike situation. Hmmm . . .) 

 

As long ago as my 1991 letter to shareholders, I nonetheless asserted that this insulated world was 
changing, writing that "the media businesses . . . will prove considerably less marvelous than I, the 
industry, or lenders thought would be the case only a few years ago." Some publishers took 
umbrage at both this remark and other warnings from me that followed. Newspaper properties, 
moreover, continued to sell as if they were indestructible slot machines. In fact, many intelligent 
newspaper executives who regularly chronicled and analyzed important worldwide events were 
either blind or indifferent to what was going on under their noses. 

 

Now, however, almost all newspaper owners realize that they are constantly losing ground in the 
battle for eyeballs. Simply put, if cable and satellite broadcasting, as well as the internet, had 
come along first, newspapers as we know them probably would never have existed. 

 

In Berkshire's world, Stan Lipsey does a terrific job running the Buffalo News, and I am 
enormously proud of its editor, Margaret Sullivan. The News' penetration of its market is the 
highest among that of this country's large newspapers. We also do better financially than most 
metropolitan newspapers, even though Buffalo's population and business trends are not good. 
Nevertheless, this operation faces unrelenting pressures that will cause profit margins to slide. 

 

True, we have the leading online news operation in Buffalo, and it will continue to attract more 
viewers and ads. However, the economic potential of a newspaper internet site - given the many 
alternative sources of information and entertainment that are free and only a click away - is at best 
a small fraction of that existing in the past for a print newspaper facing no competition. 

 

For a local resident, ownership of a city's paper, like ownership of a sports team, still produces 
instant prominence. With it typically comes power and influence. These are ruboffs that appeal to 
many people with money. Beyond that, civicminded, wealthy individuals may feel that local 
ownership will serve their community well. That's why Peter Kiewit bought the Omaha paper 
more than 40 years ago. 

 

We are likely therefore to see noneconomic individual buyers of newspapers emerge, just as we 
have seen such buyers acquire major sports franchises. Aspiring press lords should be careful, 
however: There's no rule that says a newspaper's revenues can't fall below its expenses and that 
losses can't mushroom. Fixed costs are high in the newspaper business, and that's bad news when 
unit volume heads south. As the importance of newspapers diminishes, moreover, the "psychic" 
value of possessing one will wane, whereas owning a sports franchise will likely retain its cachet. 

 

Unless we face an irreversible cash drain, we will stick with the News, just as we've said that we 
would. (Read economic principle 11, on page 76.) Charlie and I love newspapers - we each read 
five a day - and believe that a free and energetic press is a key ingredient for maintaining a great 
democracy. We hope that some combination of print and online will ward off economic 
doomsday for newspapers, and we will work hard in Buffalo to develop a sustainable business 
model. I think we will be successful. But the days of lush profits from our newspaper are over. 


. A much improved situation is emerging at NetJets, which sells and manages fractionallyowned 
aircraft. This company has never had a problem growing: Revenues from flight operations have 
increased 596% since our purchase in 1998. But profits had been erratic. 


 

Our move to Europe, which began in 1996, was particularly expensive. After five years of 
operation there, we had acquired only 80 customers. And by midyear 2006 our cumulative pretax 
loss had risen to $212 million. But European demand has now exploded, with a net of 589 
customers having been added in 20052006. Under Mark Booth's brilliant leadership, NetJets is 
now operating profitably in Europe, and we expect the positive trend to continue. 

 

Our U.S. operation also had a good year in 2006, which led to worldwide pretax earnings of $143 
million at NetJets last year. We made this profit even though we suffered a loss of $19 million in 
the first quarter. 

 

Credit Rich Santulli, along with Mark, for this turnaround. Rich, like many of our managers, has 
no financial need to work. But you'd never know it. He's absolutely tireless - monitoring 
operations, making sales, and traveling the globe to constantly widen the alreadyenormous lead 
that NetJets enjoys over its competitors. Today, the value of the fleet we manage is far greater 
than that managed by our three largest competitors combined. 

 

There's a reason NetJets is the runaway leader: It offers the ultimate in safety and service. At 
Berkshire, and at a number of our subsidiaries, NetJets aircraft are an indispensable business tool. 
I also have a contract for personal use with NetJets and so do members of my family and most 
Berkshire directors. (None of us, I should add, gets a discount.) Once you've flown NetJets, 
returning to commercial flights is like going back to holding hands. 

 

Regulated Utility Business 

 

 Berkshire has an 86.6% (fully diluted) interest in MidAmerican Energy Holdings, which owns a 
wide variety of utility operations. The largest of these are (1) Yorkshire Electricity and Northern Electric, 
whose 3.7 million electric customers make it the third largest distributor of electricity in the U.K.; (2) 
MidAmerican Energy, which serves 706,000 electric customers, primarily in Iowa; (3) Pacific Power and 
Rocky Mountain Power, serving about 1.7 million electric customers in six western states; and (4) Kern 
River and Northern Natural pipelines, which carry about 8% of the natural gas consumed in the U.S. 

 

Our partners in ownership of MidAmerican are Walter Scott, and its two terrific managers, Dave 
Sokol and Greg Abel. It's unimportant how many votes each party has; we will make major moves only 
when we are unanimous in thinking them wise. Six years of working with Dave, Greg and Walter have 
underscored my original belief: Berkshire couldn't have better partners. 

 

 Somewhat incongruously, MidAmerican owns the second largest real estate brokerage firm in the 
U.S., HomeServices of America. This company operates through 20 locallybranded firms with 20,300 
agents. Despite HomeServices' purchase of two operations last year, the company's overall volume fell 
9% to $58 billion, and profits fell 50%. 

 

 The slowdown in residential real estate activity stems in part from the weakened lending practices 
of recent years. The "optional" contracts and "teaser" rates that have been popular have allowed borrowers 
to make payments in the early years of their mortgages that fall far short of covering normal interest costs. 
Naturally, there are few defaults when virtually nothing is required of a borrower. As a cynic has said, "A 
rolling loan gathers no loss." But payments not made add to principal, and borrowers who can't afford 
normal monthly payments early on are hit later with abovenormal monthly obligations. This is the Scarlett 
O'Hara scenario: "I'll think about that tomorrow." For many home owners, "tomorrow" has now arrived. 
Consequently there is a huge overhang of offerings in several of HomeServices' markets. 

 

 Nevertheless, we will be seeking to purchase additional brokerage operations. A decade from 
now, HomeServices will almost certainly be much larger. 


 

Investments 

 

 We show below our common stock investments. With two exceptions, those that had a market 
value of more than $700 million at the end of 2006 are itemized. We don't itemize the two securities 
referred to, which have a market value of $1.9 billion, because we continue to buy them. I could, of course, 
tell you their names. But then I would have to kill you. 

 

 


 

 We are delighted by the 2006 business performance of virtually all of our investees. Last year, we 
told you that our expectation was that these companies, in aggregate, would increase their earnings by 6% 
to 8% annually, a rate that would double their earnings every ten years or so. In 2006 American Express, 


CocaCola, Procter & Gamble and Wells Fargo, our largest holdings, increased pershare earnings by 18%, 
9%, 8% and 11%. These are stellar results, and we thank their CEOs. 

 

 We've come close to eliminating our direct foreignexchange position, from which we realized 
about $186 million in pretax profits in 2006 (earnings that were included in the Finance and Financial 
Products table shown earlier). That brought our total gain since inception of this position in 2002 to $2.2 
billion. Here's a breakdown by currency: 

 



 We've made large indirect currency profits as well, though I've never tallied the precise amount. 
For example, in 20022003 we spent about $82 million buying - of all things - Enron bonds, some of 
which were denominated in Euros. Already we've received distributions of $179 million from these bonds, 
and our remaining stake is worth $173 million. That means our overall gain is $270 million, part of which 
came from the appreciation of the Euro that took place after our bond purchase. 

 

 When we first began making foreign exchange purchases, interestrate differentials between the 
U.S. and most foreign countries favored a direct currency position. But that spread turned negative in 
2005. We therefore looked for other ways to gain foreigncurrency exposure, such as the ownership of 
foreign equities or of U.S. stocks with major earnings abroad. The currency factor, we should emphasize, 
is not dominant in our selection of equities, but is merely one of many considerations. 

 

 As our U.S. trade problems worsen, the probability that the dollar will weaken over time continues 
to be high. I fervently believe in real trade - the more the better for both us and the world. We had about 
$1.44 trillion of this honesttoGod trade in 2006. But the U.S. also had $.76 trillion of pseudotrade last 
year - imports for which we exchanged no goods or services. (Ponder, for a moment, how commentators 
would describe the situation if our imports were $.76 trillion - a full 6% of GDP - and we had no exports.) 
Making these purchases that weren't reciprocated by sales, the U.S. necessarily transferred ownership of its 
assets or IOUs to the rest of the world. Like a very wealthy but selfindulgent family, we peeled off a bit of 
what we owned in order to consume more than we produced. 

 

The U.S. can do a lot of this because we are an extraordinarily rich country that has behaved 
responsibly in the past. The world is therefore willing to accept our bonds, real estate, stocks and 
businesses. And we have a vast store of these to hand over. 

 

 These transfers will have consequences, however. Already the prediction I made last year about 
one fallout from our spending binge has come true: The "investment income" account of our country - 
positive in every previous year since 1915 - turned negative in 2006. Foreigners now earn more on their 
U.S. investments than we do on our investments abroad. In effect, we've used up our bank account and 
turned to our credit card. And, like everyone who gets in hock, the U.S. will now experience "reverse 
compounding" as we pay everincreasing amounts of interest on interest. 

 

 I want to emphasize that even though our course is unwise, Americans will live better ten or 
twenty years from now than they do today. Percapita wealth will increase. But our citizens will also be 
forced every year to ship a significant portion of their current production abroad merely to service the cost 
of our huge debtor position. It won't be pleasant to work part of each day to pay for the overconsumption 


of your ancestors. I believe that at some point in the future U.S. workers and voters will find this annual 
"tribute" so onerous that there will be a severe political backlash. How that will play out in markets is 
impossible to predict - but to expect a "soft landing" seems like wishful thinking. 

 I should mention that all of the direct currency profits we have realized have come from forward 
contracts, which are derivatives, and that we have entered into other types of derivatives contracts as well. 
That may seem odd, since you know of our expensive experience in unwinding the derivatives book at Gen 
Re and also have heard me talk of the systemic problems that could result from the enormous growth in the 
use of derivatives. Why, you may wonder, are we fooling around with such potentially toxic material? 

 

 The answer is that derivatives, just like stocks and bonds, are sometimes wildly mispriced. For 
many years, accordingly, we have selectively written derivative contracts - few in number but sometimes 
for large dollar amounts. We currently have 62 contracts outstanding. I manage them personally, and they 
are free of counterparty credit risk. So far, these derivative contracts have worked out well for us, 
producing pretax profits in the hundreds of millions of dollars (above and beyond the gains I've itemized 
from forward foreignexchange contracts). Though we will experience losses from time to time, we are 
likely to continue to earn - overall - significant profits from mispriced derivatives. 

 I have told you that Berkshire has three outstanding candidates to replace me as CEO and that the 
Board knows exactly who should take over if I should die tonight. Each of the three is much younger than 
I. The directors believe it's important that my successor have the prospect of a long tenure. 

 

 Frankly, we are not as wellprepared on the investment side of our business. There's a history 
here: At one time, Charlie was my potential replacement for investing, and more recently Lou Simpson has 
filled that slot. Lou is a topnotch investor with an outstanding longterm record of managing GEICO's 
equity portfolio. But he is only six years younger than I. If I were to die soon, he would fill in 
magnificently for a short period. For the longterm, though, we need a different answer. 

 

 At our October board meeting, we discussed that subject fully. And we emerged with a plan, 
which I will carry out with the help of Charlie and Lou. 

 

 Under this plan, I intend to hire a younger man or woman with the potential to manage a very 
large portfolio, who we hope will succeed me as Berkshire's chief investment officer when the need for 
someone to do that arises. As part of the selection process, we may in fact take on several candidates. 

 

 Picking the right person(s) will not be an easy task. It's not hard, of course, to find smart people, 
among them individuals who have impressive investment records. But there is far more to successful longterm 
investing than brains and performance that has recently been good. 

 

Over time, markets will do extraordinary, even bizarre, things. A single, big mistake could wipe 
out a long string of successes. We therefore need someone genetically programmed to recognize and avoid 
serious risks, including those never before encountered. Certain perils that lurk in investment strategies 
cannot be spotted by use of the models commonly employed today by financial institutions. 

 

Temperament is also important. Independent thinking, emotional stability, and a keen 
understanding of both human and institutional behavior is vital to longterm investment success. I've seen 
a lot of very smart people who have lacked these virtues. 

 

 Finally, we have a special problem to consider: our ability to keep the person we hire. Being able 
to list Berkshire on a resume would materially enhance the marketability of an investment manager. We 
will need, therefore, to be sure we can retain our choice, even though he or she could leave and make much 
more money elsewhere. 


There are surely people who fit what we need, but they may be hard to identify. In 1979, Jack 
Byrne and I felt we had found such a person in Lou Simpson. We then made an arrangement with him 
whereby he would be paid well for sustained overperformance. Under this deal, he has earned large 
amounts. Lou, however, could have left us long ago to manage far greater sums on more advantageous 
terms. If money alone had been the object, that's exactly what he would have done. But Lou never 
considered such a move. We need to find a younger person or two made of the same stuff. 



 The good news: At 76, I feel terrific and, according to all measurable indicators, am in excellent 
health. It's amazing what Cherry Coke and hamburgers will do for a fellow. 

 

Some Changes on Berkshire's Board 

 

 The composition of our board will change in two ways this spring. One change will involve the 
Chace family, which has been connected to Berkshire and its predecessor companies for more than a 
century. In 1929, the first Malcolm G. Chace played an important role in merging four New England 
textile operations into Berkshire Fine Spinning Associates. That company merged with Hathaway 
Manufacturing in 1955 to form Berkshire Hathaway, and Malcolm G. Chace, Jr. became its chairman. 

 

 Early in 1965, Malcolm arranged for Buffett Partnership Ltd. to buy a key block of Berkshire 
shares and welcomed us as the new controlling shareholder of the company. Malcolm continued as nonexecutive 
chairman until 1969. He was both a wonderful gentleman and helpful partner. 

 

 That description also fits his son, Malcolm "Kim" Chace, who succeeded his father on Berkshire's 
board in 1992. But last year Kim, now actively and successfully running a community bank that he 
founded in 1996, suggested that we find a younger person to replace him on our board. We have done so, 
and Kim will step down as a director at the annual meeting. I owe much to the Chaces and wish to thank 
Kim for his many years of service to Berkshire. 

 

 In selecting a new director, we were guided by our longstanding criteria, which are that board 
members be owneroriented, businesssavvy, interested and truly independent. I say "truly" because many 
directors who are now deemed independent by various authorities and observers are far from that, relying 
heavily as they do on directors' fees to maintain their standard of living. These payments, which come in 
many forms, often range between $150,000 and $250,000 annually, compensation that may approach or 
even exceed all other income of the "independent" director. And - surprise, surprise - director 
compensation has soared in recent years, pushed up by recommendations from corporate America's 
favorite consultant, Ratchet, Ratchet and Bingo. (The name may be phony, but the action it conveys is 
not.) 

 

Charlie and I believe our four criteria are essential if directors are to do their job - which, by law, 
is to faithfully represent owners. Yet these criteria are usually ignored. Instead, consultants and CEOs 
seeking board candidates will often say, "We're looking for a woman," or "a Hispanic," or "someone from 
abroad," or what have you. It sometimes sounds as if the mission is to stock Noah's ark. Over the years 
I've been queried many times about potential directors and have yet to hear anyone ask, "Does he think like 
an intelligent owner?" 

 

 The questions I instead get would sound ridiculous to someone seeking candidates for, say, a 
football team, or an arbitration panel or a military command. In those cases, the selectors would look for 
people who had the specific talents and attitudes that were required for a specialized job. At Berkshire, we 
are in the specialized activity of running a business well, and therefore we seek business judgment. 

 

 That's exactly what we've found in Susan Decker, CFO of Yahoo!, who will join our board at the 
annual meeting. We are lucky to have her: She scores very high on our four criteria and additionally, at 44, 
is young - an attribute, as you may have noticed, that your Chairman has long lacked. We will seek more 
young directors in the future, but never by slighting the four qualities that we insist upon. 


This and That 

 

 Berkshire will pay about $4.4 billion in federal income tax on its 2006 earnings. In its last fiscal 
year the U.S. Government spent $2.6 trillion, or about $7 billion per day. Thus, for more than half of one 
day, Berkshire picked up the tab for all federal expenditures, ranging from Social Security and Medicare 
payments to the cost of our armed services. Had there been only 600 taxpayers like Berkshire, no one else 
in America would have needed to pay any federal income or payroll taxes. 



 Our federal return last year, we should add, ran to 9,386 pages. To handle this filing, state and 
foreign tax returns, a myriad of SEC requirements, and all of the other matters involved in running 
Berkshire, we have gone all the way up to 19 employees at World Headquarters. 

 

 This crew occupies 9,708 square feet of space, and Charlie - at World Headquarters West in Los 
Angeles - uses another 655 square feet. Our homeoffice payroll, including benefits and counting both 
locations, totaled $3,531,978 last year. We're careful when spending your money. 

 

 Corporate bigwigs often complain about government spending, criticizing bureaucrats who they 
say spend taxpayers' money differently from how they would if it were their own. But sometimes the 
financial behavior of executives will also vary based on whose wallet is getting depleted. Here's an 
illustrative tale from my days at Salomon. In the 1980s the company had a barber, Jimmy by name, who 
came in weekly to give free haircuts to the top brass. A manicurist was also on tap. Then, because of a 
costcutting drive, patrons were told to pay their own way. One top executive (not the CEO) who had 
previously visited Jimmy weekly went immediately to a onceeverythreeweeks schedule. 



Every now and then Charlie and I catch on early to a tidelike trend, one brimming over with 
commercial promise. For example, though American Airlines (with its "miles") and American Express 
(with credit card points) are credited as being trailblazers in granting customers "rewards," Charlie and I 
were far ahead of them in spotting the appeal of this powerful idea. Excited by our insight, the two of us 
jumped into the reward business way back in 1970 by buying control of a trading stamp operation, Blue 
Chip Stamps. In that year, Blue Chip had sales of $126 million, and its stamps papered California. 

 

In 1970, indeed, about 60 billion of our stamps were licked by savers, pasted into books, and taken 
to Blue Chip redemption stores. Our catalog of rewards was 116 pages thick and chock full of tantalizing 
items. When I was told that even certain brothels and mortuaries gave stamps to their patrons, I felt I had 
finally found a sure thing. 

 

Well, not quite. From the day Charlie and I stepped into the Blue Chip picture, the business went 
straight downhill. By 1980, sales had fallen to $19.4 million. And, by 1990, sales were bumping along at 
$1.5 million. No quitter, I redoubled my managerial efforts. 

 

 Sales then fell another 98%. Last year, in Berkshire's $98 billion of revenues, all of $25,920 (no 
zeros omitted) came from Blue Chip. Ever hopeful, Charlie and I soldier on. 



 I mentioned last year that in my service on 19 corporate boards (not counting Berkshire or other 
controlled companies), I have been the Typhoid Mary of compensation committees. At only one company 
was I assigned to comp committee duty, and then I was promptly outvoted on the most crucial decision that 
we faced. My ostracism has been peculiar, considering that I certainly haven't lacked experience in setting 
CEO pay. At Berkshire, after all, I am a oneman compensation committee who determines the salaries 
and incentives for the CEOs of around 40 significant operating businesses. 


 How much time does this aspect of my job take? Virtually none. How many CEOs have 
voluntarily left us for other jobs in our 42year history? Precisely none. 

 

 Berkshire employs many different incentive arrangements, with their terms depending on such 
elements as the economic potential or capital intensity of a CEO's business. Whatever the compensation 
arrangement, though, I try to keep it both simple and fair. 

 

When we use incentives - and these can be large - they are always tied to the operating results for 
which a given CEO has authority. We issue no lottery tickets that carry payoffs unrelated to business 
performance. If a CEO bats .300, he gets paid for being a .300 hitter, even if circumstances outside of his 
control cause Berkshire to perform poorly. And if he bats .150, he doesn't get a payoff just because the 
successes of others have enabled Berkshire to prosper mightily. An example: We now own $61 billion of 
equities at Berkshire, whose value can easily rise or fall by 10% in a given year. Why in the world should 
the pay of our operating executives be affected by such $6 billion swings, however important the gain or 
loss may be for shareholders? 

 

 You've read loads about CEOs who have received astronomical compensation for mediocre 
results. Much less welladvertised is the fact that America's CEOs also generally live the good life. Many, 
it should be emphasized, are exceptionally able, and almost all work far more than 40 hours a week. But 
they are usually treated like royalty in the process. (And we're certainly going to keep it that way at 
Berkshire. Though Charlie still favors sackcloth and ashes, I prefer to be spoiled rotten. Berkshire owns 
The Pampered Chef; our wonderful office group has made me The Pampered Chief.) 

 

 CEO perks at one company are quickly copied elsewhere. "All the other kids have one" may seem 
a thought too juvenile to use as a rationale in the boardroom. But consultants employ precisely this 
argument, phrased more elegantly of course, when they make recommendations to comp committees. 

 

 Irrational and excessive comp practices will not be materially changed by disclosure or by 
"independent" comp committee members. Indeed, I think it's likely that the reason I was rejected for 
service on so many comp committees was that I was regarded as too independent. Compensation reform 
will only occur if the largest institutional shareholders - it would only take a few - demand a fresh look at 
the whole system. The consultants' present drill of deftly selecting "peer" companies to compare with their 
clients will only perpetuate present excesses. 



 Last year I arranged for the bulk of my Berkshire holdings to go to five charitable foundations, 
thus carrying out part of my lifelong plan to eventually use all of my shares for philanthropic purposes. 
Details of the commitments I made, as well as the rationale for them, are posted on our website, 
www.berkshirehathaway.com. Taxes, I should note, had nothing to do with my decision or its timing. My 
federal and state income taxes in 2006 were exactly what they would have been had I not made my first 
contributions last summer, and the same point will apply to my 2007 contributions. 

 

 In my will I've stipulated that the proceeds from all Berkshire shares I still own at death are to be 
used for philanthropic purposes within ten years after my estate is closed. Because my affairs are not 
complicated, it should take three years at most for this closing to occur. Adding this 13year period to my 
expected lifespan of about 12 years (though, naturally, I'm aiming for more) means that proceeds from all 
of my Berkshire shares will likely be distributed for societal purposes over the next 25 years or so. 

 

I've set this schedule because I want the money to be spent relatively promptly by people I know 
to be capable, vigorous and motivated. These managerial attributes sometimes wane as institutions - 
particularly those that are exempt from market forces - age. Today, there are terrific people in charge at 
the five foundations. So at my death, why should they not move with dispatch to judiciously spend the 
money that remains? 


Those people favoring perpetual foundations argue that in the future there will most certainly be 
large and important societal problems that philanthropy will need to address. I agree. But there will then 
also be many superrich individuals and families whose wealth will exceed that of today's Americans and 
to whom philanthropic organizations can make their case for funding. These funders can then judge 
firsthand which operations have both the vitality and the focus to best address the major societal problems 
that then exist. In this way, a market test of ideas and effectiveness can be applied. Some organizations 
will deserve major support while others will have outlived their usefulness. Even if the people above 
ground make their decisions imperfectly, they should be able to allocate funds more rationally than a 
decedent six feet under will have ordained decades earlier. Wills, of course, can always be rewritten, but 
it's very unlikely that my thinking will change in a material way. 

 

 A few shareholders have expressed concern that sales of Berkshire by the foundations receiving 
shares will depress the stock. These fears are unwarranted. The annual trading volume of many stocks 
exceeds 100% of the outstanding shares, but nevertheless these stocks usually sell at prices approximating 
their intrinsic value. Berkshire also tends to sell at an appropriate price, but with annual volume that is only 
15% of shares outstanding. At most, sales by the foundations receiving my shares will add three 
percentage points to annual trading volume, which will still leave Berkshire with a turnover ratio that is the 
lowest around. 

 

Overall, Berkshire's business performance will determine the price of our stock, and most of the 
time it will sell in a zone of reasonableness. It's important that the foundations receive appropriate prices 
as they periodically sell Berkshire shares, but it's also important that incoming shareholders don't overpay. 
(See economic principle 14 on page 77.) By both our policies and shareholder communications, Charlie 
and I will do our best to ensure that Berkshire sells at neither a large discount nor large premium to intrinsic 
value. 

 

 The existence of foundation ownership will in no way influence our board's decisions about 
dividends, repurchases, or the issuance of shares. We will follow exactly the same rule that has guided us 
in the past: What action will be likely to deliver the best result for shareholders over time? 


 In last year's report I allegorically described the Gotrocks family - a clan that owned all of 
America's businesses and that counterproductively attempted to increase its investment returns by paying 
evergreater commissions and fees to "helpers." Sad to say, the "family" continued its selfdestructive 
ways in 2006. 

 

 In part the family persists in this folly because it harbors unrealistic expectations about obtainable 
returns. Sometimes these delusions are selfserving. For example, private pension plans can temporarily 
overstate their earnings, and public pension plans can defer the need for increased taxes, by using 
investment assumptions that are likely to be out of reach. Actuaries and auditors go along with these 
tactics, and it can be decades before the chickens come home to roost (at which point the CEO or public 
official who misled the world is apt to be gone). 

 

 Meanwhile, Wall Street's Pied Pipers of Performance will have encouraged the futile hopes of the 
family. The hapless Gotrocks will be assured that they all can achieve aboveaverage investment 
performance - but only by paying everhigher fees. Call this promise the adult version of Lake Woebegon. 

 

In 2006, promises and fees hit new highs. A flood of money went from institutional investors to 
the 2and20 crowd. For those innocent of this arrangement, let me explain: It's a lopsided system whereby 
2% of your principal is paid each year to the manager even if he accomplishes nothing - or, for that matter, 
loses you a bundle - and, additionally, 20% of your profit is paid to him if he succeeds, even if his success 
is due simply to a rising tide. For example, a manager who achieves a gross return of 10% in a year will 
keep 3.6 percentage points - two points off the top plus 20% of the residual 8 points - leaving only 6.4 
percentage points for his investors. On a $3 billion fund, this 6.4% net "performance" will deliver the 
manager a cool $108 million. He will receive this bonanza even though an index fund might have returned 
15% to investors in the same period and charged them only a token fee. 


The inexorable math of this grotesque arrangement is certain to make the Gotrocks family poorer 
over time than it would have been had it never heard of these "hyperhelpers." Even so, the 2and20 
action spreads. Its effects bring to mind the old adage: When someone with experience proposes a deal to 
someone with money, too often the fellow with money ends up with the experience, and the fellow with 
experience ends up with the money. 


 Let me end this section by telling you about one of the good guys of Wall Street, my longtime 
friend Walter Schloss, who last year turned 90. From 1956 to 2002, Walter managed a remarkably 
successful investment partnership, from which he took not a dime unless his investors made money. My 
admiration for Walter, it should be noted, is not based on hindsight. A full fifty years ago, Walter was my 
sole recommendation to a St. Louis family who wanted an honest and able investment manager. 

 

 Walter did not go to business school, or for that matter, college. His office contained one file 
cabinet in 1956; the number mushroomed to four by 2002. Walter worked without a secretary, clerk or 
bookkeeper, his only associate being his son, Edwin, a graduate of the North Carolina School of the Arts. 
Walter and Edwin never came within a mile of inside information. Indeed, they used "outside" information 
only sparingly, generally selecting securities by certain simple statistical methods Walter learned while 
working for Ben Graham. When Walter and Edwin were asked in 1989 by Outstanding Investors Digest, 
"How would you summarize your approach?" Edwin replied, "We try to buy stocks cheap." So much for 
Modern Portfolio Theory, technical analysis, macroeconomic thoughts and complex algorithms. 

 

 Following a strategy that involved no real risk - defined as permanent loss of capital - Walter 
produced results over his 47 partnership years that dramatically surpassed those of the S&P 500. It's 
particularly noteworthy that he built this record by investing in about 1,000 securities, mostly of a 
lackluster type. A few big winners did not account for his success. It's safe to say that had millions of 
investment managers made trades by a) drawing stock names from a hat; b) purchasing these stocks in 
comparable amounts when Walter made a purchase; and then c) selling when Walter sold his pick, the 
luckiest of them would not have come close to equaling his record. There is simply no possibility that what 
Walter achieved over 47 years was due to chance. 

 

 I first publicly discussed Walter's remarkable record in 1984. At that time "efficient market 
theory" (EMT) was the centerpiece of investment instruction at most major business schools. This theory, 
as then most commonly taught, held that the price of any stock at any moment is not demonstrably 
mispriced, which means that no investor can be expected to overperform the stock market averages using 
only publiclyavailable information (though some will do so by luck). When I talked about Walter 23 years 
ago, his record forcefully contradicted this dogma. 

 

And what did members of the academic community do when they were exposed to this new and 
important evidence? Unfortunately, they reacted in alltoohuman fashion: Rather than opening their 
minds, they closed their eyes. To my knowledge no business school teaching EMT made any attempt to 
study Walter's performance and what it meant for the school's cherished theory. 

 

 Instead, the faculties of the schools went merrily on their way presenting EMT as having the 
certainty of scripture. Typically, a finance instructor who had the nerve to question EMT had about as 
much chance of major promotion as Galileo had of being named Pope. 

 

 Tens of thousands of students were therefore sent out into life believing that on every day the price 
of every stock was "right" (or, more accurately, not demonstrably wrong) and that attempts to evaluate 
businesses - that is, stocks - were useless. Walter meanwhile went on overperforming, his job made easier 
by the misguided instructions that had been given to those young minds. After all, if you are in the 
shipping business, it's helpful to have all of your potential competitors be taught that the earth is flat. 

 

 Maybe it was a good thing for his investors that Walter didn't go to college. 


The Annual Meeting 

 

 Our meeting this year will be held on Saturday, May 5th. As always, the doors will open at the 
Qwest Center at 7 a.m., and a new Berkshire movie will be shown at 8:30. At 9:30 we will go directly to 
the questionandanswer period, which (with a break for lunch at the Qwest's stands) will last until 3:00. 
Then, after a short recess, Charlie and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:15. If you decide to leave 
during the day's question periods, please do so while Charlie is talking. 

 

 The best reason to exit, of course is to shop. We will help you do that by filling the 194,300 
square foot hall that adjoins the meeting area with the products of Berkshire subsidiaries. Last year, the 
24,000 people who came to the meeting did their part, and almost every location racked up record sales. 
But records are made to be broken, and I know you can do better. 

 

 This year we will again showcase a Clayton home (featuring Acme brick, Shaw carpet, Johns 
Manville insulation, MiTek fasteners, Carefree awnings and NFM furniture). You will find that the home, 
priced at $139,900, delivers excellent value. Last year, a helper at the Qwest bought one of two homes on 
display well before we opened the doors to shareholders. Flanking the Clayton home on the exhibition 
floor this year will be an RV and pontoon boat from Forest River. 

 

 GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of 
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a 
special shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 45 of the 50 jurisdictions in 
which we operate. (One supplemental point: The discount is not additive if you qualify for another, such as 
that given certain groups.) Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save 
you money. For at least 50% of you, I believe we can. And while you're at it, sign up for the new GEICO 
credit card. It's the one I now use (sparingly, of course). 

 

 On Saturday, at the Omaha airport, we will have the usual array of aircraft from NetJets available 
for your inspection. Stop by the NetJets booth at the Qwest to learn about viewing these planes. Come to 
Omaha by bus; leave in your new plane. And take all the hair gel that you wish on board with you. 

 

 In the Bookworm's corner of our bazaar, there will be about 25 books and DVDs - all discounted 
- led again by Poor Charlie's Almanack. (One hapless soul last year asked Charlie what he should do if he 
didn't enjoy the book. Back came a Mungerism: "No problem - just give it to someone more intelligent.") 
We've added a few titles this year. Among them are Seeking Wisdom: From Darwin to Munger by Peter 
Bevelin, a longtime Swedish shareholder of Berkshire, and Fred Schwed's classic, Where are the 
Customers' Yachts? This book was first published in 1940 and is now in its 4th edition. The funniest book 
ever written about investing, it lightly delivers many truly important messages on the subject. 

 

 An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain 
the credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car 
reservations, we have again signed up American Express (8007996634) to give you special help. Carol 
Pedersen, who handles these matters, does a terrific job for us each year, and I thank her for it. Hotel 
rooms can be hard to find, but work with Carol and you will get one. 

 

 At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, 
we will again be having "Berkshire Weekend" discount pricing. We initiated this special event at NFM ten 
years ago, and sales during the "Weekend" grew from $5.3 million in 1997 to $30 million in 2006. I get 
goose bumps just thinking about this volume. 

 

 To obtain the Berkshire discount, you must make your purchases between Thursday, May 3rd and 
Monday, May 7th inclusive, and also present your meeting credential. The period's special pricing will 
even apply to the products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against 
discounting but which, in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. We 
appreciate their cooperation. NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 10 a.m. 


to 6 p.m. on Sunday. On Saturday this year, from 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m., NFM is having a special shareholder 
picnic featuring chicken and beef tacos (and hamburgers for traditionalists like me). 

 

 At a remodeled and expanded Borsheim's, we will again have two shareholderonly events. The 
first will be a cocktail reception from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Friday, May 4th. The second, the main gala, will 
be held on Sunday, May 6th, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. On Saturday, we will be open until 6 p.m. 

 

 We will have huge crowds at Borsheim's throughout the weekend. For your convenience, 
therefore, shareholder prices will be available from Monday, April 30th through Saturday, May 12th. 
During that period, please identify yourself as a shareholder by presenting your meeting credentials or a 
brokerage statement that shows you are a Berkshire holder. 

 

 On Sunday, in a tent outside of Borsheim's, a blindfolded Patrick Wolff, twice U.S. chess 
champion, will take on all comers - who will have their eyes wide open - in groups of six. Last year I 
carried on a conversation with Patrick while he played in this manner. Nearby, Norman Beck, a 
remarkable magician from Dallas, will bewilder onlookers. Additionally, we will have Bob Hamman and 
Sharon Osberg, two of the world's top bridge experts, available to play bridge with our shareholders on 
Sunday afternoon. 

 

 To add to the Sunday fun at Borsheim's, Ariel Hsing will play table tennis (pingpong to the 
uninitiated) from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. against anyone brave enough to take her on. Ariel, though only 11, is 
ranked number one among girls under 16 in the U.S. (and number 1 among both boys and girls under 12). 
The week I turned 75 I played Ariel, then 9 and barely tall enough to see across the table, thinking I would 
take it easy on her so as not to crush her young spirit. Instead she crushed me. I've since devised a plan 
that will give me a chance against her. At 1 p.m. on Sunday, I will initiate play with a 2point game against 
Ariel. If I somehow win the first point, I will then feign injury and claim victory. After this strenuous 
encounter wears Ariel down, our shareholders can then try their luck against her. 

 

 Gorat's will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on Sunday, May 6th, and will be 
serving from 4 p.m. until 10 p.m. Please remember that to come to Gorat's on that day, you must have a 
reservation. To make one, call 4025513733 on April 1st (but not before). 

 

 In the 20062007 school year, 35 university classes, including one from IBMEC in Brazil, will 
come to Omaha for sessions with me. I take almost all - in aggregate, more than 2,000 students - to lunch 
at Gorat's. And they love it. To learn why, come join us on Sunday. 

 

 We will again have a reception at 4 p.m. on Saturday afternoon for shareholders who have come 
from outside of North America. Every year our meeting draws many people from around the globe, and 
Charlie and I want to be sure we personally greet those who have come so far. Last year we enjoyed 
meeting more than 400 of you from many dozens of countries. Any shareholder who comes from other 
than the U.S. or Canada will be given a special credential and instructions for attending this function. 



 Charlie and I are extraordinarily lucky. We were born in America; had terrific parents who saw 
that we got good educations; have enjoyed wonderful families and great health; and came equipped with a 
"business" gene that allows us to prosper in a manner hugely disproportionate to other people who 
contribute as much or more to our society's wellbeing. Moreover, we have long had jobs that we love, in 
which we are helped every day in countless ways by talented and cheerful associates. No wonder we tapdance 
to work. But nothing is more fun for us than getting together with our shareholderpartners at 
Berkshire's annual meeting. So join us on May 5th at the Qwest for our annual Woodstock for Capitalists. 
We'll see you there. 

 


To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.: 

Our 
gain 
in 
net 
worth 
during 
2009 
was 
$21.8 
billion, 
which 
increased 
the 
pershare 
book 
value 
of 
both 
our 
Class 
A 
and 
Class 
B 
stock 
by 
19.8%. 
Over 
the 
last 
45 
years 
(that 
is, 
since 
present 
management 
took 
over) 
book 
value 
has 
grown 
from 
$19 
to 
$84,487, 
a 
rate 
of 
20.3% 
compounded 
annually. 


Berkshire's 
recent 
acquisition 
of 
Burlington 
Northern 
Santa 
Fe 
(BNSF) 
has 
added 
at 
least 
65,000 
shareholders 
to 
the 
500,000 
or 
so 
already 
on 
our 
books. 
It's 
important 
to 
Charlie 
Munger, 
my 
longtime 
partner, 
and 
me 
that 
all 
of 
our 
owners 
understand 
Berkshire's 
operations, 
goals, 
limitations 
and 
culture. 
In 
each 
annual 
report, 
consequently, 
we 
restate 
the 
economic 
principles 
that 
guide 
us. 
This 
year 
these 
principles 
appear 
on 
pages 
8994 
and 
I 
urge 
all 
of 
you 
- 
but 
particularly 
our 
new 
shareholders 
- 
to 
read 
them. 
Berkshire 
has 
adhered 
to 
these 
principles 
for 
decades 
and 
will 
continue 
to 
do 
so 
long 
after 
I'm 
gone. 


In 
this 
letter 
we 
will 
also 
review 
some 
of 
the 
basics 
of 
our 
business, 
hoping 
to 
provide 
both 
a 
freshman 
orientation 
session 
for 
our 
BNSF 
newcomers 
and 
a 
refresher 
course 
for 
Berkshire 
veterans. 


How 
We 
Measure 
Ourselves 


Our 
metrics 
for 
evaluating 
our 
managerial 
performance 
are 
displayed 
on 
the 
facing 
page. 
From 
the 
start, 
Charlie 
and 
I 
have 
believed 
in 
having 
a 
rational 
and 
unbending 
standard 
for 
measuring 
what 
we 
have 

or 
have 
not 
 
accomplished. 
That 
keeps 
us 
from 
the 
temptation 
of 
seeing 
where 
the 
arrow 
of 
performance 
lands 
and 
then 
painting 
the 
bull's 
eye 
around 
it. 


Selecting 
the 
S&P 
500 
as 
our 
bogey 
was 
an 
easy 
choice 
because 
our 
shareholders, 
at 
virtually 
no 
cost, 
can 
match 
its 
performance 
by 
holding 
an 
index 
fund. 
Why 
should 
they 
pay 
us 
for 
merely 
duplicating 
that 
result? 


A 
more 
difficult 
decision 
for 
us 
was 
how 
to 
measure 
the 
progress 
of 
Berkshire 
versus 
the 
S&P. 
There 
are 
good 
arguments 
for 
simply 
using 
the 
change 
in 
our 
stock 
price. 
Over 
an 
extended 
period 
of 
time, 
in 
fact, 
that 
is 
the 
best 
test. 
But 
yeartoyear 
market 
prices 
can 
be 
extraordinarily 
erratic. 
Even 
evaluations 
covering 
as 
long 
as 
a 
decade 
can 
be 
greatly 
distorted 
by 
foolishly 
high 
or 
low 
prices 
at 
the 
beginning 
or 
end 
of 
the 
measurement 
period. 
Steve 
Ballmer, 
of 
Microsoft, 
and 
Jeff 
Immelt, 
of 
GE, 
can 
tell 
you 
about 
that 
problem, 
suffering 
as 
they 
do 
from 
the 
nosebleed 
prices 
at 
which 
their 
stocks 
traded 
when 
they 
were 
handed 
the 
managerial 
baton. 


The 
ideal 
standard 
for 
measuring 
our 
yearly 
progress 
would 
be 
the 
change 
in 
Berkshire's 
pershare 
intrinsic 
value. 
Alas, 
that 
value 
cannot 
be 
calculated 
with 
anything 
close 
to 
precision, 
so 
we 
instead 
use 
a 
crude 
proxy 
for 
it: 
pershare 
book 
value. 
Relying 
on 
this 
yardstick 
has 
its 
shortcomings, 
which 
we 
discuss 
on 
pages 
92 
and 
93. 
Additionally, 
book 
value 
at 
most 
companies 
understates 
intrinsic 
value, 
and 
that 
is 
certainly 
the 
case 
at 
Berkshire. 
In 
aggregate, 
our 
businesses 
are 
worth 
considerably 
more 
than 
the 
values 
at 
which 
they 
are 
carried 
on 
our 
books. 
In 
our 
allimportant 
insurance 
business, 
moreover, 
the 
difference 
is 
huge. 
Even 
so, 
Charlie 
and 
I 
believe 
that 
our 
book 
value 
- 
understated 
though 
it 
is 
- 
supplies 
the 
most 
useful 
tracking 
device 
for 
changes 
in 
intrinsic 
value. 
By 
this 
measurement, 
as 
the 
opening 
paragraph 
of 
this 
letter 
states, 
our 
book 
value 
since 
the 
start 
of 
fiscal 
1965 
has 
grown 
at 
a 
rate 
of 
20.3% 
compounded 
annually. 


All 
pershare 
figures 
used 
in 
this 
report 
apply 
to 
Berkshire's 
A 
shares. 
Figures 
for 
the 
B 
shares 
are 
1/1500th 
of 
those 
shown 
for 
A. 


3 



We.should.note.that.had.we.instead.chosen.market 
prices 
as.our.yardstick,.Berkshire's.results.would.
look.better,.showing.a.gain.since.the.start.of.fiscal.1965.of.22%.compounded.annually..Surprisingly,.this.modest.
difference.in.annual.compounding.rate.leads.to.an.801,516%.marketvalue.gain.for.the.entire.45year.period.
compared.to.the.bookvalue.gain.of.434,057%.(shown.on.page.2)..Our.market.gain.is.better.because.in.1965.
Berkshire.shares.sold.at.an.appropriate.discount.to.the.book.value.of.its.underearning.textile.assets,.whereas.
today.Berkshire.shares.regularly.sell.at.a.premium.to.the.accounting.values.of.its.firstclass.businesses..

Summed.up,.the.table.on.page.2.conveys.three.messages,.two.positive.and.one.hugely.negative..First,.
we.have.never.had.any 
fiveyear.period.beginning.with.196569.and.ending.with.200509.-.and.there.have.been.
41.of.these.-.during.which.our.gain.in.book.value.did.not.exceed.the.S&P's.gain..Second,.though.we.have.lagged.
the.S&P.in.some.years.that.were.positive.for.the.market,.we.have.consistently.done.better.than.the.S&P.in.the.
eleven.years.during.which.it.delivered.negative.results..In.other.words,.our.defense.has.been.better.than.our.
offense,.and.that's.likely.to.continue..

The.big.minus.is.that.our.performance.advantage.has.shrunk.dramatically.as.our.size.has.grown,.an.
unpleasant.trend.that.is.certain 
to.continue..To.be.sure,.Berkshire.has.many.outstanding.businesses.and.a.cadre.of.
truly.great.managers,.operating.within.an.unusual.corporate.culture.that.lets.them.maximize.their.talents..Charlie.
and.I.believe.these.factors.will.continue.to.produce.betterthanaverage.results.over.time..But.huge.sums.forge.
their.own.anchor.and.our.future.advantage,.if.any,.will.be.a.small.fraction.of.our.historical.edge..

What 
We 
Don't 
Do 


Long.ago,.Charlie.laid.out.his.strongest.ambition:."All.I.want.to.know.is.where.I'm.going.to.die,.so.I'll.
never.go.there.".That.bit.of.wisdom.was.inspired.by.Jacobi,.the.great.Prussian.mathematician,.who.counseled.
"Invert,.always.invert".as.an.aid.to.solving.difficult.problems..(I.can.report.as.well.that.this.inversion.approach.
works.on.a.less.lofty.level:.Sing.a.country.song.in.reverse,.and.you.will.quickly.recover.your.car,.house.and.
wife.).

Here.are.a.few.examples.of.how.we.apply.Charlie's.thinking.at.Berkshire:.

..Charlie.and.I.avoid.businesses.whose.futures.we.can't.evaluate,.no.matter.how.exciting.their.
products.may.be..In.the.past,.it.required.no.brilliance.for.people.to.foresee.the.fabulous.growth.
that.awaited.such.industries.as.autos.(in.1910),.aircraft.(in.1930).and.television.sets.(in.1950)..But.
the.future.then.also.included.competitive.dynamics.that.would.decimate.almost.all.of.the.
companies.entering.those.industries..Even.the.survivors.tended.to.come.away.bleeding..
Just.because.Charlie.and.I.can.clearly.see.dramatic.growth.ahead.for.an.industry.does.not.mean.
we.can.judge.what.its.profit.margins.and.returns.on.capital.will.be.as.a.host.of.competitors.battle.
for.supremacy..At.Berkshire.we.will.stick.with.businesses.whose.profit.picture.for.decades.to.
come.seems.reasonably.predictable..Even.then,.we.will.make.plenty.of.mistakes..

..We.will.never.become.dependent.on.the.kindness.of.strangers..Toobigtofail.is.not.a.fallback.
position.at.Berkshire..Instead,.we.will.always.arrange.our.affairs.so.that.any.requirements.for.cash.
we.may.conceivably.have.will.be.dwarfed.by.our.own.liquidity..Moreover,.that.liquidity.will.be.
constantly.refreshed.by.a.gusher.of.earnings.from.our.many.and.diverse.businesses..
When.the.financial.system.went.into.cardiac.arrest.in.September.2008,.Berkshire.was.a.supplier 
of.liquidity.and.capital.to.the.system,.not.a.supplicant..At.the.very.peak.of.the.crisis,.we.poured.
$15.5.billion.into.a.business.world.that.could.otherwise.look.only.to.the.federal.government.for.
help..Of.that,.$9.billion.went.to.bolster.capital.at.three.highlyregarded.and.previouslysecure.
American.businesses.that.needed.-.without 
delay 
-.our.tangible.vote.of.confidence..The.remaining.
$6.5.billion.satisfied.our.commitment.to.help.fund.the.purchase.of.Wrigley,.a.deal.that.was.
completed.without.pause.while,.elsewhere,.panic.reigned..

4.


We.pay.a.steep.price.to.maintain.our.premier.financial.strength..The.$20.billionplus.of.cash
equivalent.assets.that.we.customarily.hold.is.earning.a.pittance.at.present..But.we.sleep.well..

..We.tend.to.let.our.many.subsidiaries.operate.on.their.own,.without.our.supervising.and.
monitoring.them.to.any.degree..That.means.we.are.sometimes.late.in.spotting.management.
problems.and.that.both.operating.and.capital.decisions.are.occasionally.made.with.which.Charlie.
and.I.would.have.disagreed.had.we.been.consulted..Most.of.our.managers,.however,.use.the.
independence.we.grant.them.magnificently,.rewarding.our.confidence.by.maintaining.an.owner
oriented.attitude.that.is.invaluable.and.too.seldom.found.in.huge.organizations..We.would.rather.
suffer.the.visible.costs.of.a.few.bad.decisions.than.incur.the.many.invisible.costs.that.come.from.
decisions.made.too.slowly.-.or.not.at.all.-.because.of.a.stifling.bureaucracy..
With.our.acquisition.of.BNSF,.we.now.have.about.257,000.employees.and.literally.hundreds.of.
different.operating.units..We.hope.to.have.many.more.of.each..But.we.will.never.allow.Berkshire.
to.become.some.monolith.that.is.overrun.with.committees,.budget.presentations.and.multiple.
layers.of.management..Instead,.we.plan.to.operate.as.a.collection.of.separatelymanaged.medium
sized.and.large.businesses,.most.of.whose.decisionmaking.occurs.at.the.operating.level..Charlie.
and.I.will.limit.ourselves.to.allocating.capital,.controlling.enterprise.risk,.choosing.managers.and.
setting.their.compensation..

..We.make.no.attempt.to.woo.Wall.Street..Investors.who.buy.and.sell.based.upon.media.or.analyst.
commentary.are.not.for.us..Instead.we.want.partners 
who.join.us.at.Berkshire.because.they.wish.
to.make.a.longterm.investment.in.a.business 
they.themselves.understand.and.because.it's.one.that.
follows.policies.with.which.they.concur..If.Charlie.and.I.were.to.go.into.a.small.venture.with.a.
few.partners,.we.would.seek.individuals.in.sync.with.us,.knowing.that.common.goals.and.a.shared.
destiny.make.for.a.happy.business."marriage".between.owners.and.managers..Scaling.up.to.giant.
size.doesn't.change.that.truth..
To.build.a.compatible.shareholder.population,.we.try.to.communicate.with.our.owners.directly.
and.informatively..Our.goal.is.to.tell.you.what.we.would.like.to.know.if.our.positions.were.
reversed..Additionally,.we.try.to.post.our.quarterly.and.annual.financial.information.on.the.
Internet.early.on.weekends,.thereby.giving.you.and.other.investors.plenty.of.time.during.a.
nontrading.period.to.digest.just.what.has.happened.at.our.multifaceted.enterprise..(Occasionally,.
SEC.deadlines.force.a.nonFriday.disclosure.).These.matters.simply.can't.be.adequately.
summarized.in.a.few.paragraphs,.nor.do.they.lend.themselves.to.the.kind.of.catchy.headline.that.
journalists.sometimes.seek..

Last.year.we.saw,.in.one.instance,.how.soundbite.reporting.can.go.wrong..Among.the.12,830.
words.in.the.annual.letter.was.this.sentence:."We.are.certain,.for.example,.that.the.economy.will.
be.in.shambles.throughout.2009.-.and.probably.well.beyond.-.but.that.conclusion.does.not.tell.us.
whether.the.market.will.rise.or.fall.".Many.news.organizations.reported.-.indeed,.blared.-.the.first.
part.of.the.sentence.while.making.no.mention.whatsoever.of.its.ending..I.regard.this.as.terrible.
journalism:.Misinformed.readers.or.viewers.may.well.have.thought.that.Charlie.and.I.were.
forecasting.bad.things.for.the.stock.market,.though.we.had.not.only.in.that.sentence,.but.also.
elsewhere,.made.it.clear.we.weren't.predicting.the.market.at.all..Any.investors.who.were.misled.
by.the.sensationalists.paid.a.big.price:.The.Dow.closed.the.day.of.the.letter.at.7,063.and.finished.
the.year.at.10,428..

Given.a.few.experiences.we've.had.like.that,.you.can.understand.why.I.prefer.that.our.
communications.with.you.remain.as.direct.and.unabridged.as.possible..



Let's.move.to.the.specifics.of.Berkshire's.operations..We.have.four.major.operating.sectors,.each.
differing.from.the.others.in.balance.sheet.and.income.account.characteristics..Therefore,.lumping.them.together,.
as.is.standard.in.financial.statements,.impedes.analysis..So.we'll.present.them.as.four.separate.businesses,.which.
is.how.Charlie.and.I.view.them..

5.


Insurance 


Our.propertycasualty.(P/C).insurance.business.has.been.the.engine.behind.Berkshire's.growth.and.will.
continue.to.be..It.has.worked.wonders.for.us..We.carry.our.P/C.companies.on.our.books.at.$15.5.billion.more.
than.their.net.tangible.assets,.an.amount.lodged.in.our."Goodwill".account..These.companies,.however,.are.
worth.far 
more.than.their.carrying.value.-.and.the.following.look.at.the.economic.model.of.the.P/C.industry.will.
tell.you.why..

Insurers.receive.premiums.upfront.and.pay.claims.later..In.extreme.cases,.such.as.those.arising.from.
certain.workers'.compensation.accidents,.payments.can.stretch.over.decades..This.collectnow,.paylater.model.
leaves.us.holding.large.sums.-.money.we.call."float".-.that.will.eventually.go.to.others..Meanwhile,.we.get.to.
invest.this.float.for.Berkshire's.benefit..Though.individual.policies.and.claims.come.and.go,.the.amount.of.float.
we.hold.remains.remarkably.stable.in.relation.to.premium.volume..Consequently,.as.our.business.grows,.so.does.
our.float..

If.premiums.exceed.the.total.of.expenses.and.eventual.losses,.we.register.an.underwriting.profit.that.
adds.to.the.investment.income.produced.from.the.float..This.combination.allows.us.to.enjoy.the.use.of.free.
money.-.and,.better.yet,.get.paid 
for.holding.it..Alas,.the.hope.of.this.happy.result.attracts.intense.competition,.
so.vigorous.in.most.years.as.to.cause.the.P/C.industry.as.a.whole.to.operate.at.a.significant.underwriting.loss..
This.loss,.in.effect,.is.what.the.industry.pays.to.hold.its.float..Usually.this.cost.is.fairly.low,.but.in.some.
catastropheridden.years.the.cost.from.underwriting.losses.more.than.eats.up.the.income.derived.from.use.of.
float..

In.my.perhaps.biased.view,.Berkshire.has.the.best.large.insurance.operation.in.the.world..And.I.will.
absolutely.state.that.we.have.the.best.managers..Our.float.has.grown.from.$16.million.in.1967,.when.we.entered.
the.business,.to.$62.billion.at.the.end.of.2009..Moreover,.we.have.now.operated.at.an.underwriting.profit.for.
seven.consecutive.years..I.believe.it.likely.that.we.will.continue.to.underwrite.profitably.in.most.-.though.
certainly.not.all.-.future.years..If.we.do.so,.our.float.will.be.costfree,.much.as.if.someone.deposited.$62.billion.
with.us.that.we.could.invest.for.our.own.benefit.without.the.payment.of.interest..

Let.me.emphasize.again.that.costfree.float.is.not 
a.result.to.be.expected.for.the.P/C.industry.as.a.
whole:.In.most.years,.premiums.have.been.inadequate.to.cover.claims.plus.expenses..Consequently,.the.
industry's.overall.return.on.tangible.equity.has.for.many.decades.fallen.far.short.of.that.achieved.by.the.S&P.

500..Outstanding.economics.exist.at.Berkshire.only.because.we.have.some.outstanding.managers.running.some.
unusual.businesses..Our.insurance.CEOs.deserve.your.thanks,.having.added.many.billions.of.dollars.to.
Berkshire's.value..It's.a.pleasure.for.me.to.tell.you.about.these.allstars..
.

Let's.start.at.GEICO,.which.is.known.to.all.of.you.because.of.its.$800.million.annual.advertising.
budget.(close.to.twice.that.of.the.runnerup.advertiser.in.the.auto.insurance.field)..GEICO.is.managed.by.Tony.
Nicely,.who.joined.the.company.at.18..Now.66,.Tony.still.tapdances.to.the.office.every.day,.just.as.I.do.at.79..
We.both.feel.lucky.to.work.at.a.business.we.love..

GEICO's.customers.have.warm.feelings.toward.the.company.as.well..Here's.proof:.Since.Berkshire.
acquired.control.of.GEICO.in.1996,.its.market.share.has.increased.from.2.5%.to.8.1%,.a.gain.reflecting.the.net.
addition.of.seven.million.policyholders..Perhaps.they.contacted.us.because.they.thought.our.gecko.was.cute,.but.
they.bought.from.us.to.save.important.money..(Maybe.you.can.as.well;.call.18008477536.or.go.to.
www.GEICO.com.).And.they've.stayed.with.us.because.they.like.our.service.as.well.as.our.price..

Berkshire.acquired.GEICO.in.two.stages..In.197680.we.bought.about.onethird.of.the.company's.
stock.for.$47.million..Over.the.years,.large.repurchases.by.the.company.of.its.own.shares.caused.our.position.to.
grow.to.about.50%.without.our.having.bought.any.more.shares..Then,.on.January.2,.1996,.we.acquired.the.
remaining.50%.of.GEICO.for.$2.3.billion 
in.cash,.about.50.times.the.cost.of.our.original.purchase..

6.


An 
old 
Wall 
Street 
joke 
gets 
close 
to 
our 
experience: 


Customer: 
Thanks 
for 
putting 
me 
in 
XYZ 
stock 
at 
5. 
I 
hear 
it's 
up 
to 
18. 


Broker: 
Yes, 
and 
that's 
just 
the 
beginning. 
In 
fact, 
the 
company 
is 
doing 
so 
well 
now, 
that 
it's 
an 
even 
better 
buy 
at 
18 
than 
it 
was 
when 
you 
made 
your 
purchase. 


Customer: 
Damn, 
I 
knew 
I 
should 
have 
waited. 


GEICO's 
growth 
may 
slow 
in 
2010. 
U.S. 
vehicle 
registrations 
are 
actually 
down 
because 
of 
slumping 
auto 
sales. 
Moreover, 
high 
unemployment 
is 
causing 
a 
growing 
number 
of 
drivers 
to 
go 
uninsured. 
(That's 
illegal 
almost 
everywhere, 
but 
if 
you've 
lost 
your 
job 
and 
still 
want 
to 
drive 
. 
. 
.) 
Our 
"lowcost 
producer" 
status, 
however, 
is 
sure 
to 
give 
us 
significant 
gains 
in 
the 
future. 
In 
1995, 
GEICO 
was 
the 
country's 
sixth 
largest 
auto 
insurer; 
now 
we 
are 
number 
three. 
The 
company's 
float 
has 
grown 
from 
$2.7 
billion 
to 
$9.6 
billion. 
Equally 
important, 
GEICO 
has 
operated 
at 
an 
underwriting 
profit 
in 
13 
of 
the 
14 
years 
Berkshire 
has 
owned 
it. 


I 
became 
excited 
about 
GEICO 
in 
January 
1951, 
when 
I 
first 
visited 
the 
company 
as 
a 
20yearold 
student. 
Thanks 
to 
Tony, 
I'm 
even 
more 
excited 
today. 


 
A 
hugely 
important 
event 
in 
Berkshire's 
history 
occurred 
on 
a 
Saturday 
in 
1985. 
Ajit 
Jain 
came 
into 
our 
office 
in 
Omaha 
- 
and 
I 
immediately 
knew 
we 
had 
found 
a 
superstar. 
(He 
had 
been 
discovered 
by 
Mike 
Goldberg, 
now 
elevated 
to 
St. 
Mike.) 


We 
immediately 
put 
Ajit 
in 
charge 
of 
National 
Indemnity's 
small 
and 
struggling 
reinsurance 
operation. 
Over 
the 
years, 
he 
has 
built 
this 
business 
into 
a 
oneofakind 
giant 
in 
the 
insurance 
world. 


Staffed 
today 
by 
only 
30 
people, 
Ajit's 
operation 
has 
set 
records 
for 
transaction 
size 
in 
several 
areas 
of 
insurance. 
Ajit 
writes 
billiondollar 
limits 
- 
and 
then 
keeps 
every 
dime 
of 
the 
risk 
instead 
of 
laying 
it 
off 
with 
other 
insurers. 
Three 
years 
ago, 
he 
took 
over 
huge 
liabilities 
from 
Lloyds, 
allowing 
it 
to 
clean 
up 
its 
relationship 
with 
27,972 
participants 
("names") 
who 
had 
written 
problemridden 
policies 
that 
at 
one 
point 
threatened 
the 
survival 
of 
this 
322yearold 
institution. 
The 
premium 
for 
that 
single 
contract 
was 
$7.1 
billion. 
During 
2009, 
he 
negotiated 
a 
life 
reinsurance 
contract 
that 
could 
produce 
$50 
billion 
of 
premium 
for 
us 
over 
the 
next 
50 
or 
so 
years. 


Ajit's 
business 
is 
just 
the 
opposite 
of 
GEICO's. 
At 
that 
company, 
we 
have 
millions 
of 
small 
policies 
that 
largely 
renew 
year 
after 
year. 
Ajit 
writes 
relatively 
few 
policies, 
and 
the 
mix 
changes 
significantly 
from 
year 
to 
year. 
Throughout 
the 
world, 
he 
is 
known 
as 
the 
man 
to 
call 
when 
something 
both 
very 
large 
and 
unusual 
needs 
to 
be 
insured. 


If 
Charlie, 
I 
and 
Ajit 
are 
ever 
in 
a 
sinking 
boat 
- 
and 
you 
can 
only 
save 
one 
of 
us 
- 
swim 
to 
Ajit. 



Our 
third 
insurance 
powerhouse 
is 
General 
Re. 
Some 
years 
back 
this 
operation 
was 
troubled; 
now 
it 
is 
a 
gleaming 
jewel 
in 
our 
insurance 
crown. 


Under 
the 
leadership 
of 
Tad 
Montross, 
General 
Re 
had 
an 
outstanding 
underwriting 
year 
in 
2009, 
while 
also 
delivering 
us 
unusually 
large 
amounts 
of 
float 
per 
dollar 
of 
premium 
volume. 
Alongside 
General 
Re's 
P/C 
business, 
Tad 
and 
his 
associates 
have 
developed 
a 
major 
life 
reinsurance 
operation 
that 
has 
grown 
increasingly 
valuable. 


Last 
year 
General 
Re 
finally 
attained 
100% 
ownership 
of 
Cologne 
Re, 
which 
since 
1995 
has 
been 
a 
key 

though 
only 
partiallyowned 

part 
of 
our 
presence 
around 
the 
world. 
Tad 
and 
I 
will 
be 
visiting 
Cologne 
in 
September 
to 
thank 
its 
managers 
for 
their 
important 
contribution 
to 
Berkshire. 


7 

Finally,.we.own.a.group.of.smaller.companies,.most.of.them.specializing.in.odd.corners.of.the.
insurance.world..In.aggregate,.their.results.have.consistently.been.profitable.and,.as.the.table.below.shows,.the.
float.they.provide.us.is.substantial..Charlie.and.I.treasure.these.companies.and.their.managers..

Here.is.the.record.of.all.four.segments.of.our.propertycasualty.and.life.insurance.businesses:.

Underwriting 
Profit 
Yearend 
Float 



And.now.a.painful.confession:.Last.year.your.chairman.closed.the.book.on.a.very.expensive.business.
fiasco.entirely.of.his.own.making..

For.many.years.I.had.struggled.to.think.of.side.products.that.we.could.offer.our.millions.of.loyal.
GEICO.customers..Unfortunately,.I.finally.succeeded,.coming.up.with.a.brilliant.insight.that.we.should.market.
our.own.credit.card..I.reasoned.that.GEICO.policyholders.were.likely.to.be.good.credit.risks.and,.assuming.we.
offered.an.attractive.card,.would.likely.favor.us.with.their.business..We.got.business.all.right.-.but.of.the.wrong.
type..

Our.pretax.losses.from.creditcard.operations.came.to.about.$6.3.million.before.I.finally.woke.up..We.
then.sold.our.$98.million.portfolio.of.troubled.receivables.for.55?.on.the.dollar,.losing.an.additional.$44.million..

GEICO's.managers,.it.should.be.emphasized,.were.never.enthusiastic.about.my.idea..They.warned.me.
that.instead.of.getting.the.cream.of.GEICO's.customers.we.would.get.the.-----.well,.let's.call.it.the.
noncream..I.subtly.indicated.that.I.was.older.and.wiser..

I.was.just.older..

Regulated 
Utility 
Business 


Berkshire.has.an.89.5%.interest.in.MidAmerican.Energy.Holdings,.which.owns.a.wide.variety.of.
utility.operations..The.largest.of.these.are.(1).Yorkshire.Electricity.and.Northern.Electric,.whose.3.8.million.end.
users.make.it.the.U.K.'s.third.largest.distributor.of.electricity;.(2).MidAmerican.Energy,.which.serves.725,000.
electric.customers,.primarily.in.Iowa;.(3).Pacific.Power.and.Rocky.Mountain.Power,.serving.about.1.7.million.
electric.customers.in.six.western.states;.and.(4).Kern.River.and.Northern.Natural.pipelines,.which.carry.about.
8%.of.the.natural.gas.consumed.in.the.U.S..

MidAmerican.has.two.terrific.managers,.Dave.Sokol.and.Greg.Abel..In.addition,.my.longtime.friend,.
Walter.Scott,.along.with.his.family,.has.a.major.ownership.position.in.the.company..Walter.brings.extraordinary.
business.savvy.to.any 
operation..Ten.years.of.working.with.Dave,.Greg.and.Walter.have.reinforced.my.original.
belief:.Berkshire.couldn't.have.better.partners..They.are.truly.a.dream.team..

Somewhat.incongruously,.MidAmerican.also.owns.the.second.largest.real.estate.brokerage.firm.in.the.
U.S.,.HomeServices.of.America..This.company.operates.through.21.locallybranded.firms.that.have.16,000.
agents..Though.last.year.was.again.a.terrible.year.for.home.sales,.HomeServices.earned.a.modest.sum..It.also.
acquired.a.firm.in.Chicago.and.will.add.other.quality.brokerage.operations.when.they.are.available.at.sensible.
prices..A.decade.from.now,.HomeServices.is.likely.to.be.much.larger..

8.

Here.are.some.key.figures.on.MidAmerican's.operations:.



Consists.of.a.breakup.fee.of.$175.million.and.a.profit.on.our.investment.of.$917.million..
Includes.interest.earned.by.Berkshire.(net.of.related.income.taxes).of.$38.in.2009.and.$72.in.2008..

Our.regulated.electric.utilities,.offering.monopoly.service.in.most.cases,.operate.in.a.symbiotic.manner.
with.the.customers.in.their.service.areas,.with.those.users.depending.on.us.to.provide.firstclass.service.and.
invest.for.their.future.needs..Permitting.and.construction.periods.for.generation.and.major.transmission.facilities.
stretch.way.out,.so.it.is.incumbent.on.us.to.be.farsighted..We,.in.turn,.look.to.our.utilities'.regulators.(acting.on.
behalf.of.our.customers).to.allow.us.an.appropriate.return.on.the.huge.amounts.of.capital.we.must.deploy.to.meet.
future.needs..We.shouldn't.expect.our.regulators.to.live.up.to.their.end.of.the.bargain.unless.we.live.up.to.ours..

Dave.and.Greg.make.sure.we.do.just.that..National.research.companies.consistently.rank.our.Iowa.and.
Western.utilities.at.or.near.the.top.of.their.industry..Similarly,.among.the.43.U.S..pipelines.ranked.by.a.firm.
named.Mastio,.our.Kern.River.and.Northern.Natural.properties.tied.for.second.place..

Moreover,.we.continue.to.pour.huge.sums.of.money.into.our.operations.so.as.to.not.only.prepare.for.
the.future.but.also.make.these.operations.more.environmentally.friendly..Since.we.purchased.MidAmerican.ten.
years.ago,.it.has.never 
paid.a.dividend..We.have.instead.used.earnings.to.improve.and.expand.our.properties.in.
each.of.the.territories.we.serve..As.one.dramatic.example,.in.the.last.three.years.our.Iowa.and.Western.utilities.
have.earned.$2.5.billion,.while.in.this.same.period.spending.$3.billion.on.wind.generation.facilities..

MidAmerican.has.consistently.kept.its.end.of.the.bargain.with.society.and,.to.society's.credit,.it.has.
reciprocated:.With.few.exceptions,.our.regulators.have.promptly.allowed.us.to.earn.a.fair.return.on.the.ever
increasing.sums.of.capital.we.must.invest..Going.forward,.we.will.do.whatever.it.takes.to.serve.our.territories.in.
the.manner.they.expect..We.believe.that,.in.turn,.we.will.be.allowed.the.return.we.deserve.on.the.funds.we.
invest..

In.earlier.days,.Charlie.and.I.shunned.capitalintensive.businesses.such.as.public.utilities..Indeed,.the.
best.businesses.by.far.for.owners.continue.to.be.those.that.have.high.returns.on.capital.and.that.require.little.
incremental.investment.to.grow..We.are.fortunate.to.own.a.number.of.such.businesses,.and.we.would.love.to.buy.
more..Anticipating,.however,.that.Berkshire.will.generate.everincreasing.amounts.of.cash,.we.are.today.quite.
willing.to.enter.businesses.that.regularly.require.large.capital.expenditures..We.expect.only.that.these.businesses.
have.reasonable.expectations.of.earning.decent.returns.on.the.incremental.sums.they.invest..If.our.expectations.
are.met.-.and.we.believe.that.they.will.be.-.Berkshire's.evergrowing.collection.of.good.to.great.businesses.
should.produce.aboveaverage,.though.certainly.not.spectacular,.returns.in.the.decades.ahead..

9.


Our.BNSF.operation,.it.should.be.noted,.has.certain.important.economic.characteristics.that.resemble.
those.of.our.electric.utilities..In.both.cases.we.provide.fundamental.services.that.are,.and.will.remain,.essential.to.
the.economic.wellbeing.of.our.customers,.the.communities.we.serve,.and.indeed.the.nation..Both.will.require.
heavy.investment.that.greatly.exceeds.depreciation.allowances.for.decades.to.come..Both.must.also.plan.far.
ahead.to.satisfy.demand.that.is.expected.to.outstrip.the.needs.of.the.past..Finally,.both.require.wise.regulators.
who.will.provide.certainty.about.allowable.returns.so.that.we.can.confidently.make.the.huge.investments.
required.to.maintain,.replace.and.expand.the.plant..

We.see.a."social.compact".existing.between.the.public.and.our.railroad.business,.just.as.is.the.case.
with.our.utilities..If.either.side.shirks.its.obligations,.both.sides.will.inevitably.suffer..Therefore,.both.parties.to.
the.compact.should.-.and.we.believe.will.-.understand.the.benefit.of.behaving.in.a.way.that.encourages.good.
behavior.by.the.other..It.is.inconceivable.that.our.country.will.realize.anything.close.to.its.full.economic.
potential.without.its.possessing.firstclass.electricity.and.railroad.systems..We.will.do.our.part.to.see.that.they.
exist..

In.the.future,.BNSF.results.will.be.included.in.this."regulated.utility".section..Aside.from.the.two.
businesses.having.similar.underlying.economic.characteristics,.both.are.logical.users.of.substantial.amounts.of.
debt.that.is.not 
guaranteed.by.Berkshire..Both.will.retain.most.of.their.earnings..Both.will.earn.and.invest.large.
sums.in.good.times.or.bad,.though.the.railroad.will.display.the.greater.cyclicality..Overall,.we.expect.this.
regulated.sector.to.deliver.significantly.increased.earnings.over.time,.albeit.at.the.cost.of.our.investing.many.tens.

-.yes,.tens.-.of.billions.of.dollars.of.incremental.equity.capital..
Manufacturing, 
Service 
and 
Retailing 
Operations 


Our.activities.in.this.part.of.Berkshire.cover.the.waterfront..Let's.look,.though,.at.a.summary.balance.
sheet.and.earnings.statement.for.the.entire.group..


Almost.all.of.the.many.and.widelydiverse.operations.in.this.sector.suffered.to.one.degree.or.another.
from.2009's.severe.recession..The.major.exception.was.McLane,.our.distributor.of.groceries,.confections.and.
nonfood.items.to.thousands.of.retail.outlets,.the.largest.by.far.WalMart..

Grady.Rosier.led.McLane.to.record.pretax.earnings.of.$344.million,.which.even.so.amounted.to.only.
slightly.more.than.one.cent.per.dollar.on.its.huge.sales.of.$31.2.billion..McLane.employs.a.vast.array.of.physical.
assets.-.practically.all.of.which.it.owns.-.including.3,242.trailers,.2,309.tractors.and.55.distribution.centers.with.

15.2.million.square.feet.of.space..McLane's.prime.asset,.however,.is.Grady..
We.had.a.number.of.companies.at.which.profits.improved.even.as.sales.contracted,.always.an.
exceptional.managerial.achievement..Here.are.the.CEOs.who.made.it.happen:.

COMPANY 
CEO 


Benjamin.Moore.(paint).Denis.Abrams.
Borsheims.(jewelry.retailing).Susan.Jacques.

H..H..Brown.(manufacturing.and.retailing.of.shoes).Jim.Issler.
CTB.(agricultural.equipment).Vic.Mancinelli.
Dairy.Queen.John.Gainor.
Nebraska.Furniture.Mart.(furniture.retailing).Ron.and.Irv.Blumkin.
Pampered.Chef.(direct.sales.of.kitchen.tools).Marla.Gottschalk.
See's.(manufacturing.and.retailing.of.candy).Brad.Kinstler.
Star.Furniture.(furniture.retailing).Bill.Kimbrell.
Among.the.businesses.we.own.that.have.major.exposure.to.the.depressed.industrial.sector,.both.
Marmon.and.Iscar.turned.in.relatively.strong.performances..Frank.Ptak's.Marmon.delivered.a.13.5%.pretax.
profit.margin,.a.record.high..Though.the.company's.sales.were.down.27%,.Frank's.costconscious.management.
mitigated.the.decline.in.earnings..

Nothing.stops.Israelbased.Iscar.-.not.wars,.recessions.or.competitors..The.world's.two.other.leading.
suppliers.of.small.cutting.tools.both.had.very.difficult.years,.each.operating.at.a.loss.throughout.much.of.the.
year..Though.Iscar's.results.were.down.significantly.from.2008,.the.company.regularly.reported.profits,.even.
while.it.was.integrating.and.rationalizing.Tungaloy,.the.large.Japanese.acquisition.that.we.told.you.about.last.
year..When.manufacturing.rebounds,.Iscar.will.set.new.records..Its.incredible.managerial.team.of.Eitan.
Wertheimer,.Jacob.Harpaz.and.Danny.Goldman.will.see.to.that..

Every.business.we.own.that.is.connected.to.residential.and.commercial.construction.suffered.severely.
in.2009..Combined.pretax.earnings.of.Shaw,.Johns.Manville,.Acme.Brick,.and.MiTek.were.$227.million,.an.
82.5%.decline.from.$1.295.billion.in.2006,.when.construction.activity.was.booming..These.businesses.continue.
to.bump.along.the.bottom,.though.their.competitive.positions.remain.undented..

The.major.problem.for.Berkshire.last.year.was.NetJets,.an.aviation.operation.that.offers.fractional.
ownership.of.jets..Over.the.years,.it.has.been.enormously.successful.in.establishing.itself.as.the.premier.company.
in.its.industry,.with.the.value.of.its.fleet.far.exceeding.that.of.its.three.major.competitors.combined..Overall,.our.
dominance.in.the.field.remains.unchallenged..

NetJets'.business.operation,.however,.has.been.another.story..In.the.eleven.years.that.we.have.owned.
the.company,.it.has.recorded.an.aggregate.pretax.loss.of.$157.million..Moreover,.the.company's.debt.has.soared.
from.$102.million.at.the.time.of.purchase.to.$1.9.billion.in.April.of.last.year..Without.Berkshire's.guarantee.of.
this.debt,.NetJets.would.have.been.out.of.business..It's.clear.that.I.failed.you.in.letting.NetJets.descend.into.this.
condition..But,.luckily,.I.have.been.bailed.out..

11.


Dave.Sokol,.the.enormously.talented.builder.and.operator.of.MidAmerican.Energy,.became.CEO.of.
NetJets.in.August..His.leadership.has.been.transforming:.Debt.has.already.been.reduced.to.$1.4.billion,.and,.after.
suffering.a.staggering.loss.of.$711.million.in.2009,.the.company.is.now.solidly.profitable..

Most.important,.none.of.the.changes.wrought.by.Dave.have.in.any.way.undercut.the.topoftheline.
standards.for.safety.and.service.that.Rich.Santulli,.NetJets'.previous.CEO.and.the.father.of.the.fractional
ownership.industry,.insisted.upon..Dave.and.I.have.the.strongest.possible.personal.interest.in.maintaining.these.
standards.because.we.and.our.families.use.NetJets.for.almost.all.of.our.flying,.as.do.many.of.our.directors.and.
managers..None.of.us.are.assigned.special.planes.nor.crews..We.receive.exactly.the.same.treatment.as.any.other.
owner,.meaning.we.pay.the.same.prices.as.everyone.else.does.when.we.are.using.our.personal.contracts..In.short,.
we.eat.our.own.cooking..In.the.aviation.business,.no.other.testimonial.means.more..

Finance 
and 
Financial 
Products 


Our.largest.operation.in.this.sector.is.Clayton.Homes,.the.country's.leading.producer.of.modular.and.
manufactured.homes..Clayton.was.not.always.number.one:.A.decade.ago.the.three.leading.manufacturers.were.
Fleetwood,.Champion.and.Oakwood,.which.together.accounted.for.44%.of.the.output.of.the.industry..All.have.
since.gone.bankrupt..Total.industry.output,.meanwhile,.has.fallen.from.382,000.units.in.1999.to.60,000.units.in.
2009..

The.industry.is.in.shambles.for.two.reasons,.the.first.of.which.must.be.lived.with.if.the.U.S..economy.
is.to.recover..This.reason.concerns.U.S..housing.starts.(including.apartment.units)..In.2009,.starts.were.554,000,.
by.far.the.lowest.number.in.the.50.years.for.which.we.have.data..Paradoxically,.this.is.good 
news..

People.thought 
it.was.good.news.a.few.years.back.when.housing.starts.-.the.supply.side.of.the.picture.

-.were.running.about.two.million.annually..But.household.formations.-.the.demand.side.-.only.amounted.to.
about.1.2.million..After.a.few.years.of.such.imbalances,.the.country.unsurprisingly.ended.up.with.far.too.many.
houses..
There.were.three.ways.to.cure.this.overhang:.(1).blow.up.a.lot.of.houses,.a.tactic.similar.to.the.
destruction.of.autos.that.occurred.with.the."cashforclunkers".program;.(2).speed.up.household.formations.by,.
say,.encouraging.teenagers.to.cohabitate,.a.program.not.likely.to.suffer.from.a.lack.of.volunteers.or;.(3).reduce.
new.housing.starts.to.a.number.far.below.the.rate.of.household.formations..

Our.country.has.wisely.selected.the.third.option,.which.means.that.within.a.year.or.so.residential.
housing.problems.should.largely.be.behind.us,.the.exceptions.being.only.highvalue.houses.and.those.in.certain.
localities.where.overbuilding.was.particularly.egregious..Prices.will.remain.far.below."bubble".levels,.of.course,.
but.for.every.seller.(or.lender).hurt.by.this.there.will.be.a.buyer.who.benefits..Indeed,.many.families.that.couldn't.
afford.to.buy.an.appropriate.home.a.few.years.ago.now.find.it.well.within.their.means.because.the.bubble.burst..

The.second.reason.that.manufactured.housing.is.troubled.is.specific.to.the.industry:.the.punitive.
differential.in.mortgage.rates.between.factorybuilt.homes.and.sitebuilt.homes..Before.you.read.further,.let.me.
underscore.the.obvious:.Berkshire.has.a.dog.in.this.fight,.and.you.should.therefore.assess.the.commentary.that.
follows.with.special.care..That.warning.made,.however,.let.me.explain.why.the.rate.differential.causes.problems.
for.both.large.numbers.of.lowerincome.Americans.and.Clayton..

The.residential.mortgage.market.is.shaped.by.government.rules.that.are.expressed.by.FHA,.Freddie.
Mac.and.Fannie.Mae..Their.lending.standards.are.allpowerful.because.the.mortgages.they.insure.can.typically.
be.securitized.and.turned.into.what,.in.effect,.is.an.obligation.of.the.U.S..government..Currently.buyers.of.
conventional.sitebuilt.homes.who.qualify.for.these.guarantees.can.obtain.a.30year.loan.at.about.51.4%..In.
addition,.these.are.mortgages.that.have.recently.been.purchased.in.massive.amounts.by.the.Federal.Reserve,.an.
action.that.also.helped.to.keep.rates.at.bargainbasement.levels..

In.contrast,.very.few.factorybuilt.homes.qualify.for.agencyinsured.mortgages..Therefore,.a.
meritorious.buyer.of.a.factorybuilt.home.must.pay.about.9%.on.his.loan..For.the.allcash.buyer,.Clayton's.
homes.offer.terrific.value..If.the.buyer.needs.mortgage.financing,.however.-.and,.of.course,.most.buyers.do.-.the.
difference.in.financing.costs.too.often.negates.the.attractive.price.of.a.factorybuilt.home..

12.


Last.year.I.told.you.why.our.buyers.-.generally.people.with.low.incomes.-.performed.so.well.as.credit.
risks..Their.attitude.was.allimportant:.They.signed.up.to.live.in.the.home,.not.resell.or.refinance.it..
Consequently,.our.buyers.usually.took.out.loans.with.payments.geared.to.their.verified.incomes.(we.weren't.
making."liar's.loans").and.looked.forward.to.the.day.they.could.burn.their.mortgage..If.they.lost.their.jobs,.had.
health.problems.or.got.divorced,.we.could.of.course.expect.defaults..But.they.seldom.walked.away.simply.
because.house.values.had.fallen..Even.today,.though.jobloss.troubles.have.grown,.Clayton's.delinquencies.and.
defaults.remain.reasonable.and.will.not.cause.us.significant.problems..

We.have.tried.to.qualify.more.of.our.customers'.loans.for.treatment.similar.to.those.available.on.the.
sitebuilt.product..So.far.we.have.had.only.token.success..Many.families.with.modest.incomes.but.responsible.
habits.have.therefore.had.to.forego.home.ownership.simply.because.the.financing.differential.attached.to.the.
factorybuilt.product.makes.monthly.payments.too.expensive..If.qualifications.aren't.broadened,.so.as.to.open.
lowcost.financing.to.all 
who.meet.downpayment.and.income.standards,.the.manufacturedhome.industry.seems.
destined.to.struggle.and.dwindle..

Even.under.these.conditions,.I.believe.Clayton.will.operate.profitably.in.coming.years,.though.well.
below.its.potential..We.couldn't.have.a.better.manager.than.CEO.Kevin.Clayton,.who.treats.Berkshire's.interests.
as.if.they.were.his.own..Our.product.is.firstclass,.inexpensive.and.constantly.being.improved..Moreover,.we.will.
continue.to.use.Berkshire's.credit.to.support.Clayton's.mortgage.program,.convinced.as.we.are.of.its.soundness..
Even.so,.Berkshire.can't.borrow.at.a.rate.approaching.that.available.to.government.agencies..This.handicap.will.
limit.sales,.hurting.both.Clayton.and.a.multitude.of.worthy.families.who.long.for.a.lowcost.home..

In.the.following.table,.Clayton's.earnings.are.net.of.the.company's.payment.to.Berkshire.for.the.use.of.
its.credit..Offsetting.this.cost.to.Clayton.is.an.identical.amount.of.income.credited.to.Berkshire's.finance.
operation.and.included.in."Other.Income.".The.cost.and.income.amount.was.$116.million.in.2009.and.$92.
million.in.2008..

The.table.also.illustrates.how.severely.our.furniture.(CORT).and.trailer.(XTRA).leasing.operations.
have.been.hit.by.the.recession..Though.their.competitive.positions.remain.as.strong.as.ever,.we.have.yet.to.see.
any.bounce.in.these.businesses..


At.the.end.of.2009,.we.became.a.50%.owner.of.Berkadia.Commercial.Mortgage.(formerly.known.as.
Capmark),.the.country's.thirdlargest.servicer.of.commercial.mortgages..In.addition.to.servicing.a.$235.billion.
portfolio,.the.company.is.an.important.originator.of.mortgages,.having.25.offices.spread.around.the.country..
Though.commercial.real.estate.will.face.major.problems.in.the.next.few.years,.longterm.opportunities.for.
Berkadia.are.significant..

13.


Our.partner.in.this.operation.is.Leucadia,.run.by.Joe.Steinberg.and.Ian.Cumming,.with.whom.we.had.a.
terrific.experience.some.years.back.when.Berkshire.joined.with.them.to.purchase.Finova,.a.troubled.finance.
business..In.resolving.that.situation,.Joe.and.Ian.did.far.more.than.their.share.of.the.work,.an.arrangement.I.
always.encourage..Naturally,.I.was.delighted.when.they.called.me.to.partner.again.in.the.Capmark.purchase..

Our.first.venture.was.also.christened.Berkadia..So.let's.call.this.one.Son.of.Berkadia..Someday.I'll.be.
writing.you.about.Grandson.of.Berkadia..

Investments 


Below.we.show.our.common.stock.investments.that.at.yearend.had.a.market.value.of.more.than.$1.billion..



In.addition,.we.own.positions.in.nontraded.securities.of.Dow.Chemical,.General.Electric,.Goldman.
Sachs,.Swiss.Re.and.Wrigley.with.an.aggregate.cost.of.$21.1.billion.and.a.carrying.value.of.$26.0.billion..We.
purchased.these.five.positions.in.the.last.18.months..Setting.aside.the.significant.equity.potential.they.provide.us,.
these.holdings.deliver.us.an.aggregate.of.$2.1.billion.annually.in.dividends.and.interest..Finally,.we.owned.
76,777,029.shares.(22.5%).of.BNSF.at.yearend,.which.we.then.carried.at.$85.78.per.share,.but.which.have.
subsequently.been.melded.into.our.purchase.of.the.entire.company..

In.2009,.our.largest.sales.were.in.ConocoPhillips,.Moody's,.Procter.&.Gamble.and.Johnson.&.Johnson.
(sales.of.the.latter.occurring.after.we.had.built.our.position.earlier.in.the.year)..Charlie.and.I.believe.that.all.of.
these.stocks.will.likely.trade.higher.in.the.future..We.made.some.sales.early.in.2009.to.raise.cash.for.our.Dow.
and.Swiss.Re.purchases.and.late.in.the.year.made.other.sales.in.anticipation.of.our.BNSF.purchase..

14.


We.told.you.last.year.that.very.unusual.conditions.then.existed.in.the.corporate.and.municipal.bond.
markets.and.that.these.securities.were.ridiculously.cheap.relative.to.U.S..Treasuries..We.backed.this.view.with.
some.purchases,.but.I.should.have.done.far.more..Big.opportunities.come.infrequently..When.it's.raining.gold,.
reach.for.a.bucket,.not.a.thimble..

We.entered.2008.with.$44.3.billion.of.cashequivalents,.and.we.have.since.retained.operating.earnings.
of.$17.billion..Nevertheless,.at.yearend.2009,.our.cash.was.down.to.$30.6.billion.(with.$8.billion.earmarked.for.
the.BNSF.acquisition)..We've.put.a.lot.of.money.to.work.during.the.chaos.of.the.last.two.years..It's.been.an.
ideal.period.for.investors:.A.climate.of.fear.is.their.best.friend..Those.who.invest.only.when.commentators.are.
upbeat.end.up.paying.a.heavy.price.for.meaningless.reassurance..In.the.end,.what.counts.in.investing.is.what.you.
pay.for.a.business.-.through.the.purchase.of.a.small.piece.of.it.in.the.stock.market.-.and.what.that.business.earns.
in.the.succeeding.decade.or.two..


Last.year.I.wrote.extensively.about.our.derivatives.contracts,.which.were.then.the.subject.of.both.
controversy.and.misunderstanding..For.that.discussion,.please.go.to.www.berkshirehathaway.com..

We.have.since.changed.only.a.few.of.our.positions..Some.credit.contracts.have.run.off..The.terms.of.
about.10%.of.our.equity.put.contracts.have.also.changed:.Maturities.have.been.shortened.and.strike.prices.
materially.reduced..In.these.modifications,.no.money.changed.hands..

A.few.points.from.last.year's.discussion.are.worth.repeating:.

(1).Though.it's.no.sure.thing,.I.expect.our.contracts.in.aggregate.to.deliver.us.a.profit.over.their.lifetime,.
even.when.investment.income.on.the.huge.amount.of.float.they.provide.us.is.excluded.in.the.
calculation..Our.derivatives.float.-.which.is.not.included.in.the.$62.billion.of.insurance.float.I.
described.earlier.-.was.about.$6.3.billion.at.yearend..
(2).Only.a.handful.of.our.contracts.require.us.to.post.collateral.under.any.circumstances..At.last.year's.low.
point.in.the.stock.and.credit.markets,.our.posting.requirement.was.$1.7.billion,.a.small.fraction.of.the.
derivativesrelated.float.we.held..When.we.do.post.collateral,.let.me.add,.the.securities.we.put.up.
continue.to.earn.money.for.our.account..
(3).Finally,.you.should.expect.large.swings.in.the.carrying.value.of.these.contracts,.items.that.can.affect.
our.reported.quarterly.earnings.in.a.huge.way.but.that.do.not.affect.our.cash.or.investment.holdings..
That.thought.certainly.fit.2009's.circumstances..Here.are.the.pretax.quarterly.gains.and.losses.from.
derivatives.valuations.that.were.part.of.our.reported.earnings.last.year:.
Quarter.$.Gain.(Loss).in.Billions.



As.we've.explained,.these.wild.swings.neither.cheer.nor.bother.Charlie.and.me..When.we.report.to.
you,.we.will.continue.to.separate.out.these.figures.(as.we.do.realized.investment.gains.and.losses).so.that.you.can.
more.clearly.view.the.earnings.of.our.operating.businesses..We.are.delighted.that.we.hold.the.derivatives.
contracts.that.we.do..To.date.we.have.significantly.profited.from.the.float.they.provide..We.expect.also.to.earn.
further.investment.income.over.the.life.of.our.contracts..

15.


We.have.long.invested.in.derivatives.contracts.that.Charlie.and.I.think.are.mispriced,.just.as.we.try.to.
invest.in.mispriced.stocks.and.bonds..Indeed,.we.first.reported.to.you.that.we.held.such.contracts.in.early.1998..
The.dangers.that.derivatives.pose.for.both.participants.and.society.-.dangers.of.which.we've.long.warned,.and.
that.can.be.dynamite.-.arise.when.these.contracts.lead.to.leverage.and/or.counterparty.risk.that.is.extreme..At.
Berkshire.nothing.like.that.has.occurred.-.nor.will.it..

It's.my.job.to.keep.Berkshire.far.away.from.such.problems..Charlie.and.I.believe.that.a.CEO.must.not.
delegate.risk.control..It's.simply.too.important..At.Berkshire,.I.both.initiate.and.monitor.every 
derivatives.
contract.on.our.books,.with.the.exception.of.operationsrelated.contracts.at.a.few.of.our.subsidiaries,.such.as.
MidAmerican,.and.the.minor.runoff.contracts.at.General.Re..If.Berkshire.ever.gets.in.trouble,.it.will.be.my 
fault..
It.will.not.be.because.of.misjudgments.made.by.a.Risk.Committee.or.Chief.Risk.Officer..


In.my.view.a.board.of.directors.of.a.huge.financial.institution.is.derelict 
if.it.does.not.insist.that.its.
CEO.bear.full.responsibility.for.risk.control..If.he's.incapable.of.handling.that.job,.he.should.look.for.other.
employment..And.if.he.fails.at.it.-.with.the.government.thereupon.required.to.step.in.with.funds.or.guarantees.-.
the.financial.consequences.for.him.and.his.board.should.be.severe..

It.has.not.been.shareholders.who.have.botched.the.operations.of.some.of.our.country's.largest.financial.
institutions..Yet.they.have.borne.the.burden,.with.90%.or.more.of.the.value.of.their.holdings.wiped.out.in.most.
cases.of.failure..Collectively,.they.have.lost.more.than.$500.billion.in.just.the.four.largest.financial.fiascos.of.the.
last.two.years..To.say.these.owners 
have.been."bailedout".is.to.make.a.mockery.of.the.term..

The.CEOs.and.directors.of.the.failed.companies,.however,.have.largely.gone.unscathed..Their.fortunes.may.
have.been.diminished.by.the.disasters.they.oversaw,.but.they.still.live.in.grand.style..It.is.the.behavior.of.these.
CEOs.and.directors.that.needs.to.be.changed:.If.their.institutions.and.the.country.are.harmed.by.their.
recklessness,.they.should.pay.a.heavy.price.-.one.not.reimbursable.by.the.companies.they've.damaged.nor.by.
insurance..CEOs.and,.in.many.cases,.directors.have.long.benefitted.from.oversized.financial.carrots;.some.
meaningful 
sticks.now.need.to.be.part.of.their.employment.picture.as.well..

An 
Inconvenient 
Truth 
(Boardroom 
Overheating) 


Our.subsidiaries.made.a.few.small."bolton".acquisitions.last.year.for.cash,.but.our.blockbuster.deal.
with.BNSF.required.us.to.issue.about.95,000.Berkshire.shares.that.amounted.to.6.1%.of.those.previously.
outstanding..Charlie.and.I.enjoy.issuing.Berkshire.stock.about.as.much.as.we.relish.prepping.for.a.colonoscopy..

The.reason.for.our.distaste.is.simple..If.we.wouldn't.dream.of.selling.Berkshire.in.its.entirety.at.the.
current.market.price,.why.in.the.world.should.we."sell".a.significant.part.of.the.company.at.that.same.inadequate.
price.by.issuing.our.stock.in.a.merger?.

In.evaluating.a.stockforstock.offer,.shareholders.of.the.target.company.quite.understandably.focus.on.
the.market.price.of.the.acquirer's.shares.that.are.to.be.given.them..But.they.also.expect.the.transaction.to.deliver.
them.the.intrinsic 
value.of.their.own.shares.-.the.ones.they.are.giving.up..If.shares.of.a.prospective.acquirer.are.
selling.below.their.intrinsic.value,.it's.impossible.for.that.buyer.to.make.a.sensible.deal.in.an.allstock.deal..You.
simply.can't.exchange.an.undervalued.stock.for.a.fullyvalued.one.without.hurting.your.shareholders..

Imagine,.if.you.will,.Company.A.and.Company.B,.of.equal.size.and.both.with.businesses.intrinsically.
worth.$100.per.share..Both.of.their.stocks,.however,.sell.for.$80.per.share..The.CEO.of.A,.long.on.confidence.
and.short.on.smarts,.offers.11.4.shares.of.A.for.each.share.of.B,.correctly.telling.his.directors.that.B.is.worth.$100.
per.share..He.will.neglect.to.explain,.though,.that.what.he.is.giving.will.cost.his.shareholders.$125.in.intrinsic.
value..If.the.directors.are.mathematically.challenged.as.well,.and.a.deal.is.therefore.completed,.the.shareholders.
of.B.will.end.up.owning.55.6%.of.A.&.B's.combined.assets.and.A's.shareholders.will.own.44.4%..Not.everyone.
at.A,.it.should.be.noted,.is.a.loser.from.this.nonsensical.transaction..Its.CEO.now.runs.a.company.twice.as.large.
as.his.original.domain,.in.a.world.where.size.tends.to.correlate.with.both.prestige.and.compensation..

16.


If.an.acquirer's.stock.is.overvalued,.it's.a.different.story:.Using.it.as.a.currency.works.to.the.acquirer's.
advantage..That's.why.bubbles.in.various.areas.of.the.stock.market.have.invariably.led.to.serial.issuances.of.
stock.by.sly.promoters..Going.by.the.market.value.of.their.stock,.they.can.afford.to.overpay.because.they.are,.in.
effect,.using.counterfeit.money..Periodically,.many.airforassets.acquisitions.have.taken.place,.the.late.1960s.
having.been.a.particularly.obscene.period.for.such.chicanery..Indeed,.certain.large.companies.were.built.in.this.
way..(No.one.involved,.of.course,.ever.publicly.acknowledges.the.reality.of.what.is.going.on,.though.there.is.
plenty.of.private.snickering.).

In.our.BNSF.acquisition,.the.selling.shareholders.quite.properly.evaluated.our.offer.at.$100.per.share..
The.cost.to.us,.however,.was.somewhat.higher.since.40%.of.the.$100.was.delivered.in.our.shares,.which.Charlie.
and.I.believed.to.be.worth.more.than.their.market.value..Fortunately,.we.had.long.owned.a.substantial.amount.of.
BNSF.stock.that.we.purchased.in.the.market.for.cash..All.told,.therefore,.only.about.30%.of.our.cost.overall.was.
paid.with.Berkshire.shares..

In.the.end,.Charlie.and.I.decided.that.the.disadvantage.of.paying.30%.of.the.price.through.stock.was.
offset.by.the.opportunity.the.acquisition.gave.us.to.deploy.$22.billion.of.cash.in.a.business.we.understood.and.
liked.for.the.long.term..It.has.the.additional.virtue.of.being.run.by.Matt.Rose,.whom.we.trust.and.admire..We.
also.like.the.prospect.of.investing.additional.billions.over.the.years.at.reasonable.rates.of.return..But.the.final.
decision.was.a.close.one..If.we.had.needed.to.use.more.stock.to.make.the.acquisition,.it.would.in.fact.have.made.
no.sense..We.would.have.then.been.giving.up.more.than.we.were.getting..



I.have.been.in.dozens.of.board.meetings.in.which.acquisitions.have.been.deliberated,.often.with.the.
directors.being.instructed.by.highpriced.investment.bankers.(are.there.any.other.kind?)..Invariably,.the.bankers.
give.the.board.a.detailed.assessment.of.the.value.of.the.company.being.purchased,.with.emphasis.on.why.it.is.
worth.far.more.than.its.market.price..In.more.than.fifty.years.of.board.memberships,.however,.never.have.I.heard.
the.investment.bankers.(or.management!).discuss.the.true.value.of.what.is.being.given..When.a.deal.involved.the.
issuance.of.the.acquirer's.stock,.they.simply.used.market.value.to.measure.the.cost..They 
did 
this 
even 
though 
they 
would 
have 
argued 
that 
the 
acquirer's 
stock 
price 
was 
woefully 
inadequate 
- 
absolutely 
no 
indicator 
of 
its 
real 
value 
- 
had 
a 
takeover 
bid 
for 
the 
acquirer 
instead 
been 
the 
subject 
up 
for 
discussion..

When.stock.is.the.currency.being.contemplated.in.an.acquisition.and.when.directors.are.hearing.from.
an.advisor,.it.appears.to.me.that.there.is.only.one.way.to.get.a.rational.and.balanced.discussion..Directors.should.
hire.a.second.advisor.to.make.the.case.against 
the.proposed.acquisition,.with.its.fee.contingent.on.the.deal.not 
going.through..Absent.this.drastic.remedy,.our.recommendation.in.respect.to.the.use.of.advisors.remains:."Don't.
ask.the.barber.whether.you.need.a.haircut.".



I.can't.resist.telling.you.a.true.story.from.long.ago..We.owned.stock.in.a.large.wellrun.bank.that.for.
decades.had.been.statutorily.prevented.from.acquisitions..Eventually,.the.law.was.changed.and.our.bank.
immediately.began.looking.for.possible.purchases..Its.managers.-.fine.people.and.able.bankers.-.not.
unexpectedly.began.to.behave.like.teenage.boys.who.had.just.discovered.girls..

They.soon.focused.on.a.much.smaller.bank,.also.wellrun.and.having.similar.financial.characteristics.
in.such.areas.as.return.on.equity,.interest.margin,.loan.quality,.etc..Our.bank.sold.at.a.modest.price.(that's.why.
we.had.bought.into.it),.hovering.near.book.value.and.possessing.a.very.low.price/earnings.ratio..Alongside,.
though,.the.smallbank.owner.was.being.wooed.by.other.large.banks.in.the.state.and.was.holding.out.for.a.price.
close.to.three.times.book.value..Moreover,.he.wanted.stock,.not.cash..

Naturally,.our.fellows.caved.in.and.agreed.to.this.valuedestroying.deal.."We.need.to.show.that.we.are.
in.the.hunt..Besides,.it's.only.a.small.deal,".they.said,.as.if.only.major 
harm.to.shareholders.would.have.been.a.
legitimate.reason.for.holding.back..Charlie's.reaction.at.the.time:."Are.we.supposed.to.applaud.because.the.dog.
that.fouls.our.lawn.is.a.Chihuahua.rather.than.a.Saint.Bernard?".

17.


The 
seller 
of 
the 
smaller 
bank 
- 
no 
fool 
- 
then 
delivered 
one 
final 
demand 
in 
his 
negotiations. 
"After 
the 
merger," 
he 
in 
effect 
said, 
perhaps 
using 
words 
that 
were 
phrased 
more 
diplomatically 
than 
these, 
"I'm 
going 
to 
be 
a 
large 
shareholder 
of 
your 
bank, 
and 
it 
will 
represent 
a 
huge 
portion 
of 
my 
net 
worth. 
You 
have 
to 
promise 
me, 
therefore, 
that 
you'll 
never 
again 
do 
a 
deal 
this 
dumb." 


Yes, 
the 
merger 
went 
through. 
The 
owner 
of 
the 
small 
bank 
became 
richer, 
we 
became 
poorer, 
and 
the 
managers 
of 
the 
big 
bank 
- 
newly 
bigger 
- 
lived 
happily 
ever 
after. 


The 
Annual 
Meeting 


Our 
best 
guess 
is 
that 
35,000 
people 
attended 
the 
annual 
meeting 
last 
year 
(up 
from 
12 
- 
no 
zeros 
omitted 
- 
in 
1981). 
With 
our 
shareholder 
population 
much 
expanded, 
we 
expect 
even 
more 
this 
year. 
Therefore, 
we 
will 
have 
to 
make 
a 
few 
changes 
in 
the 
usual 
routine. 
There 
will 
be 
no 
change, 
however, 
in 
our 
enthusiasm 
for 
having 
you 
attend. 
Charlie 
and 
I 
like 
to 
meet 
you, 
answer 
your 
questions 
and 
- 
best 
of 
all 
- 
have 
you 
buy 
lots 
of 
goods 
from 
our 
businesses. 


The 
meeting 
this 
year 
will 
be 
held 
on 
Saturday, 
May 
1st. 
As 
always, 
the 
doors 
will 
open 
at 
the 
Qwest 
Center 
at 
7 
a.m., 
and 
a 
new 
Berkshire 
movie 
will 
be 
shown 
at 
8:30. 
At 
9:30 
we 
will 
go 
directly 
to 
the 
questionandanswer 
period, 
which 
(with 
a 
break 
for 
lunch 
at 
the 
Qwest's 
stands) 
will 
last 
until 
3:30. 
After 
a 
short 
recess, 
Charlie 
and 
I 
will 
convene 
the 
annual 
meeting 
at 
3:45. 
If 
you 
decide 
to 
leave 
during 
the 
day's 
question 
periods, 
please 
do 
so 
while 
Charlie 
is 
talking. 
(Act 
fast; 
he 
can 
be 
terse.) 


The 
best 
reason 
to 
exit, 
of 
course, 
is 
to 
shop. 
We 
will 
help 
you 
do 
that 
by 
filling 
the 
194,300squarefoot 
hall 
that 
adjoins 
the 
meeting 
area 
with 
products 
from 
dozens 
of 
Berkshire 
subsidiaries. 
Last 
year, 
you 
did 
your 
part, 
and 
most 
locations 
racked 
up 
record 
sales. 
But 
you 
can 
do 
better. 
(A 
friendly 
warning: 
If 
I 
find 
sales 
are 
lagging, 
I 
get 
testy 
and 
lock 
the 
exits.) 


GEICO 
will 
have 
a 
booth 
staffed 
by 
a 
number 
of 
its 
top 
counselors 
from 
around 
the 
country, 
all 
of 
them 
ready 
to 
supply 
you 
with 
auto 
insurance 
quotes. 
In 
most 
cases, 
GEICO 
will 
be 
able 
to 
give 
you 
a 
shareholder 
discount 
(usually 
8%). 
This 
special 
offer 
is 
permitted 
by 
44 
of 
the 
51 
jurisdictions 
in 
which 
we 
operate. 
(One 
supplemental 
point: 
The 
discount 
is 
not 
additive 
if 
you 
qualify 
for 
another, 
such 
as 
that 
given 
certain 
groups.) 
Bring 
the 
details 
of 
your 
existing 
insurance 
and 
check 
out 
whether 
we 
can 
save 
you 
money. 
For 
at 
least 
50% 
of 
you, 
I 
believe 
we 
can. 


Be 
sure 
to 
visit 
the 
Bookworm. 
Among 
the 
more 
than 
30 
books 
and 
DVDs 
it 
will 
offer 
are 
two 
new 
books 
by 
my 
sons: 
Howard's 
Fragile, 
a 
volume 
filled 
with 
photos 
and 
commentary 
about 
lives 
of 
struggle 
around 
the 
globe 
and 
Peter's 
Life 
Is 
What 
You 
Make 
It. 
Completing 
the 
family 
trilogy 
will 
be 
the 
debut 
of 
my 
sister 
Doris's 
biography, 
a 
story 
focusing 
on 
her 
remarkable 
philanthropic 
activities. 
Also 
available 
will 
be 
Poor 
Charlie's 
Almanack, 
the 
story 
of 
my 
partner. 
This 
book 
is 
something 
of 
a 
publishing 
miracle 
- 
never 
advertised, 
yet 
year 
after 
year 
selling 
many 
thousands 
of 
copies 
from 
its 
Internet 
site. 
(Should 
you 
need 
to 
ship 
your 
book 
purchases, 
a 
nearby 
shipping 
service 
will 
be 
available.) 


If 
you 
are 
a 
big 
spender 
- 
or, 
for 
that 
matter, 
merely 
a 
gawker 
- 
visit 
Elliott 
Aviation 
on 
the 
east 
side 
of 
the 
Omaha 
airport 
between 
noon 
and 
5:00 
p.m. 
on 
Saturday. 
There 
we 
will 
have 
a 
fleet 
of 
NetJets 
aircraft 
that 
will 
get 
your 
pulse 
racing. 


An 
attachment 
to 
the 
proxy 
material 
that 
is 
enclosed 
with 
this 
report 
explains 
how 
you 
can 
obtain 
the 
credential 
you 
will 
need 
for 
admission 
to 
the 
meeting 
and 
other 
events. 
As 
for 
plane, 
hotel 
and 
car 
reservations, 
we 
have 
again 
signed 
up 
American 
Express 
(8007996634) 
to 
give 
you 
special 
help. 
Carol 
Pedersen, 
who 
handles 
these 
matters, 
does 
a 
terrific 
job 
for 
us 
each 
year, 
and 
I 
thank 
her 
for 
it. 
Hotel 
rooms 
can 
be 
hard 
to 
find, 
but 
work 
with 
Carol 
and 
you 
will 
get 
one. 


18 



At.Nebraska.Furniture.Mart,.located.on.a.77acre.site.on.72nd.Street.between.Dodge.and.Pacific,.we.
will.again.be.having."Berkshire.Weekend".discount.pricing..To.obtain.the.Berkshire.discount,.you.must.make.
your.purchases.between.Thursday,.April.29th.and.Monday,.May.3rd.inclusive,.and.also.present.your.meeting.
credential..The.period's.special.pricing.will.even.apply.to.the.products.of.several.prestigious.manufacturers.that.
normally.have.ironclad.rules.against.discounting.but.which,.in.the.spirit.of.our.shareholder.weekend,.have.made.
an.exception.for.you..We.appreciate.their.cooperation..NFM.is.open.from.10.a.m..to.9.p.m..Monday.through.
Saturday,.and.10.a.m..to.6.p.m..on.Sunday..On.Saturday.this.year,.from.5:30.p.m..to.8.p.m.,.NFM.is.having.a.
Berkyville.BBQ.to.which.you.are.all.invited..

At.Borsheims,.we.will.again.have.two.shareholderonly.events..The.first.will.be.a.cocktail.reception.
from.6.p.m..to.10.p.m..on.Friday,.April.30th..The.second,.the.main.gala,.will.be.held.on.Sunday,.May.2nd,.from.9.

a.m..to.4.p.m..On.Saturday,.we.will.be.open.until.6.p.m..
We.will.have.huge.crowds.at.Borsheims.throughout.the.weekend..For.your.convenience,.therefore,.
shareholder.prices.will.be.available.from.Monday,.April.26th.through.Saturday,.May.8th..During.that.period,.
please.identify.yourself.as.a.shareholder.by.presenting.your.meeting.credentials.or.a.brokerage.statement.that.
shows.you.are.a.Berkshire.holder..Enter.with.rhinestones;.leave.with.diamonds..My.daughter.tells.me.that.the.
more.you.buy,.the.more.you.save.(kids.say.the.darnedest.things)..

On.Sunday,.in.the.mall.outside.of.Borsheims,.a.blindfolded.Patrick.Wolff,.twice.U.S..chess.champion,.
will.take.on.all.comers.-.who.will.have.their.eyes.wide.open.-.in.groups.of.six..Nearby,.Norman.Beck,.a.
remarkable.magician.from.Dallas,.will.bewilder.onlookers..

Our.special.treat.for.shareholders.this.year.will.be.the.return.of.my.friend,.Ariel.Hsing,.the.country's.
topranked.junior.table.tennis.player.(and.a.good.bet.to.win.at.the.Olympics.some.day)..Now.14,.Ariel.came.to.
the.annual.meeting.four.years.ago.and.demolished.all.comers,.including.me..(You.can.witness.my.humiliating.
defeat.on.YouTube;.just.type.in.Ariel.Hsing.Berkshire.).

Naturally,.I've.been.plotting.a.comeback.and.will.take.her.on.outside.of.Borsheims.at.1:00.p.m..on.
Sunday..It.will.be.a.threepoint.match,.and.after.I.soften.her.up,.all.shareholders.are.invited.to.try.their.luck.at.
similar.threepoint.contests..Winners.will.be.given.a.box.of.See's.candy..We.will.have.equipment.available,.but.
bring.your.own.paddle.if.you.think.it.will.help..(It.won't.).

Gorat's.will.again.be.open.exclusively.for.Berkshire.shareholders.on.Sunday,.May.2nd,.and.will.be.
serving.from.1.p.m..until.10.p.m..Last.year,.though,.it.was.overwhelmed.by.demand..With.many.more.diners.
expected.this.year,.I've.asked.my.friend,.Donna.Sheehan,.at.Piccolo's.-.another.favorite.restaurant.of.mine.-.to.
serve.shareholders.on.Sunday.as.well..(Piccolo's.giant.root.beer.float.is.mandatory.for.any.fan.of.fine.dining.).I.
plan.to.eat.at.both.restaurants:.All.of.the.weekend.action.makes.me.really 
hungry,.and.I.have.favorite.dishes.at.
each.spot..Remember:.To.make.a.reservation.at.Gorat's,.call.4025513733.on.April.1st.(but 
not 
before).and.at.
Piccolo's.call.4023429038..

Regrettably,.we.will.not.be.able.to.have.a.reception.for.international.visitors.this.year..Our.count.grew.
to.about.800.last.year,.and.my.simply.signing.one.item.per.person.took.about.21.2.hours..Since.we.expect.even.
more.international.visitors.this.year,.Charlie.and.I.decided.we.must.drop.this.function..But.be.assured,.we.
welcome.every.international.visitor.who.comes..

Last.year.we.changed.our.method.of.determining.what.questions.would.be.asked.at.the.meeting.and.
received.many.dozens.of.letters.applauding.the.new.arrangement..We.will.therefore.again.have.the.same.three.
financial.journalists.lead.the.questionandanswer.period,.asking.Charlie.and.me.questions.that.shareholders.have.
submitted.to.them.by.email..

19.


The.journalists.and.their.email.addresses.are:.Carol.Loomis,.of.Fortune,.who.may.be.emailed.at.
cloomis@fortunemail.com;.Becky.Quick,.of.CNBC,.at.BerkshireQuestions@cnbc.com,.and.Andrew.Ross.
Sorkin,.of.The.New.York.Times,.at.arsorkin@nytimes.com..From.the.questions.submitted,.each.journalist.will.
choose.the.dozen.or.so.he.or.she.decides.are.the.most.interesting.and.important..The.journalists.have.told.me.
your.question.has.the.best.chance.of.being.selected.if.you.keep.it.concise.and.include.no.more.than.two.questions.
in.any.email.you.send.them..(In.your.email,.let.the.journalist.know.if.you.would.like.your.name.mentioned.if.
your.question.is.selected.).

Neither.Charlie.nor.I.will.get.so.much.as.a.clue.about.the.questions.to.be.asked..We.know.the.
journalists.will.pick.some.tough.ones.and.that's.the.way.we.like.it..

We.will.again.have.a.drawing.at.8:15.on.Saturday.at.each.of.13.microphones.for.those.shareholders.
wishing.to.ask.questions.themselves..At.the.meeting,.I.will.alternate.the.questions.asked.by.the.journalists.with.
those.from.the.winning.shareholders..We've.added.30.minutes.to.the.question.time.and.will.probably.have.time.
for.about.30.questions.from.each.group..


At.86.and.79,.Charlie.and.I.remain.lucky.beyond.our.dreams..We.were.born.in.America;.had.terrific.
parents.who.saw.that.we.got.good.educations;.have.enjoyed.wonderful.families.and.great.health;.and.came.
equipped.with.a."business".gene.that.allows.us.to.prosper.in.a.manner.hugely.disproportionate.to.that.
experienced.by.many.people.who.contribute.as.much.or.more.to.our.society's.wellbeing..Moreover,.we.have.
long.had.jobs.that.we.love,.in.which.we.are.helped.in.countless.ways.by.talented.and.cheerful.associates..Indeed,.
over.the.years,.our.work.has.become.ever.more.fascinating;.no.wonder.we.tapdance.to.work..If.pushed,.we.
would.gladly.pay.substantial.sums.to.have.our.jobs.(but.don't.tell.the.Comp.Committee)..

Nothing,.however,.is.more.fun.for.us.than.getting.together.with.our.shareholderpartners.at.Berkshire's.
annual.meeting..So.join.us.on.May.1st.at.the.Qwest.for.our.annual.Woodstock.for.Capitalists..We'll.see.you.
there..


To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.: 
 

Our gain in net worth during 2007 was $12.3 billion, which increased the pershare book value of 
both our Class A and Class B stock by 11%. Over the last 43 years (that is, since present management took 
over) book value has grown from $19 to $78,008, a rate of 21.1% compounded annually. 

 

Overall, our 76 operating businesses did well last year. The few that had problems were primarily 
those linked to housing, among them our brick, carpet and real estate brokerage operations. Their setbacks 
are minor and temporary. Our competitive position in these businesses remains strong, and we have firstclass 
CEOs who run them right, in good times or bad. 

 

Some major financial institutions have, however, experienced staggering problems because they 
engaged in the "weakened lending practices" I described in last year's letter. John Stumpf, CEO of Wells 
Fargo, aptly dissected the recent behavior of many lenders: "It is interesting that the industry has invented 
new ways to lose money when the old ways seemed to work just fine." 

 

You may recall a 2003 Silicon Valley bumper sticker that implored, "Please, God, Just One More 
Bubble." Unfortunately, this wish was promptly granted, as just about all Americans came to believe that 
house prices would forever rise. That conviction made a borrower's income and cash equity seem 
unimportant to lenders, who shoveled out money, confident that HPA - house price appreciation - would 
cure all problems. Today, our country is experiencing widespread pain because of that erroneous belief. 
As house prices fall, a huge amount of financial folly is being exposed. You only learn who has been 
swimming naked when the tide goes out - and what we are witnessing at some of our largest financial 
institutions is an ugly sight. 

 

 Turning to happier thoughts, we can report that Berkshire's newest acquisitions of size, TTI and 
Iscar, led by their CEOs, Paul Andrews and Jacob Harpaz respectively, performed magnificently in 2007. 
Iscar is as impressive a manufacturing operation as I've seen, a view I reported last year and that was 
confirmed by a visit I made in the fall to its extraordinary plant in Korea. 

 

 Finally, our insurance business - the cornerstone of Berkshire - had an excellent year. Part of the 
reason is that we have the best collection of insurance managers in the business - more about them later. 
But we also were very lucky in 2007, the second year in a row free of major insured catastrophes. 

 

 That party is over. It's a certainty that insuranceindustry profit margins, including ours, will fall 
significantly in 2008. Prices are down, and exposures inexorably rise. Even if the U.S. has its third 
consecutive catastrophelight year, industry profit margins will probably shrink by four percentage points 
or so. If the winds roar or the earth trembles, results could be far worse. So be prepared for lower 
insurance earnings during the next few years. 

 

Yardsticks 

 

 Berkshire has two major areas of value. The first is our investments: stocks, bonds and cash 
equivalents. At yearend these totaled $141 billion (not counting those in our finance or utility operations, 
which we assign to our second bucket of value). 

 

 

 A second, somewhat related, point about these managers is that they have exactly the job they 
want for the rest of their working years. At almost any other company, key managers below the top aspire 
to keep climbing the pyramid. For them, the subsidiary or division they manage today is a way station - or 
so they hope. Indeed, if they are in their present positions five years from now, they may well feel like 
failures. 

 

 Conversely, our CEOs' scorecards for success are not whether they obtain my job but instead are 
the longterm performances of their businesses. Their decisions flow from a heretoday, hereforever 
mindset. I think our rare and hardtoreplicate managerial structure gives Berkshire a real advantage. 

 

Acquisitions 

 

 Though our managers may be the best, we will need large and sensible acquisitions to get the 
growth in operating earnings we wish. Here, we made little progress in 2007 until very late in the year. 
Then, on Christmas day, Charlie and I finally earned our paychecks by contracting for the largest cash 
purchase in Berkshire's history. 

 

 The seeds of this transaction were planted in 1954. That fall, only three months into a new job, I 
was sent by my employers, Ben Graham and Jerry Newman, to a shareholders' meeting of Rockwood 
Chocolate in Brooklyn. A young fellow had recently taken control of this company, a manufacturer of 
assorted cocoabased items. He had then initiated a oneofakind tender, offering 80 pounds of cocoa 
beans for each share of Rockwood stock. I described this transaction in a section of the 1988 annual report 
that explained arbitrage. I also told you that Jay Pritzker - the young fellow mentioned above - was the 
business genius behind this taxefficient idea, the possibilities for which had escaped all the other experts 
who had thought about buying Rockwood, including my bosses, Ben and Jerry. 

 

 At the meeting, Jay was friendly and gave me an education on the 1954 tax code. I came away 
very impressed. Thereafter, I avidly followed Jay's business dealings, which were many and brilliant. His 
valued partner was his brother, Bob, who for nearly 50 years ran Marmon Group, the home for most of the 
Pritzker businesses. 

 

 Jay died in 1999, and Bob retired early in 2002. Around then, the Pritzker family decided to 
gradually sell or reorganize certain of its holdings, including Marmon, a company operating 125 
businesses, managed through nine sectors. Marmon's largest operation is Union Tank Car, which together 
with a Canadian counterpart owns 94,000 rail cars that are leased to various shippers. The original cost of 
this fleet is $5.1 billion. All told, Marmon has $7 billion in sales and about 20,000 employees. 

 

 We will soon purchase 60% of Marmon and will acquire virtually all of the balance within six 
years. Our initial outlay will be $4.5 billion, and the price of our later purchases will be based on a formula 
tied to earnings. Prior to our entry into the picture, the Pritzker family received substantial consideration 
from Marmon's distribution of cash, investments and certain businesses. 

 

 This deal was done in the way Jay would have liked. We arrived at a price using only Marmon's 
financial statements, employing no advisors and engaging in no nitpicking. I knew that the business 
would be exactly as the Pritzkers represented, and they knew that we would close on the dot, however 
chaotic financial markets might be. During the past year, many large deals have been renegotiated or killed 
entirely. With the Pritzkers, as with Berkshire, a deal is a deal. 

 

 Marmon's CEO, Frank Ptak, works closely with a longtime associate, John Nichols. John was 
formerly the highly successful CEO of Illinois Tool Works (ITW), where he teamed with Frank to run a 
mix of industrial businesses. Take a look at their ITW record; you'll be impressed. 


 Byron Trott of Goldman Sachs - whose praises I sang in the 2003 report - facilitated the Marmon 
transaction. Byron is the rare investment banker who puts himself in his client's shoes. Charlie and I trust 
him completely. 

 

 You'll like the code name that Goldman Sachs assigned the deal. Marmon entered the auto 
business in 1902 and exited it in 1933. Along the way it manufactured the Wasp, a car that won the first 
Indianapolis 500 race, held in 1911. So this deal was labeled "Indy 500." 



 In May 2006, I spoke at a lunch at Ben Bridge, our Seattlebased jewelry chain. The audience was 
a number of its vendors, among them Dennis Ulrich, owner of a company that manufactured gold jewelry. 

 

 In January 2007, Dennis called me, suggesting that with Berkshire's support he could build a large 
jewelry supplier. We soon made a deal for his business, simultaneously purchasing a supplier of about 
equal size. The new company, Richline Group, has since made two smaller acquisitions. Even with those, 
Richline is far below the earnings threshold we normally require for purchases. I'm willing to bet, 
however, that Dennis - with the help of his partner, Dave Meleski - will build a large operation, earning 
good returns on capital employed. 

 

Businesses - The Great, the Good and the Gruesome 

 

 Let's take a look at what kind of businesses turn us on. And while we're at it, let's also discuss 
what we wish to avoid. 

 

 Charlie and I look for companies that have a) a business we understand; b) favorable longterm 
economics; c) able and trustworthy management; and d) a sensible price tag. We like to buy the whole 
business or, if management is our partner, at least 80%. When controltype purchases of quality aren't 
available, though, we are also happy to simply buy small portions of great businesses by way of stockmarket 
purchases. It's better to have a part interest in the Hope Diamond than to own all of a rhinestone. 

 

 A truly great business must have an enduring "moat" that protects excellent returns on invested 
capital. The dynamics of capitalism guarantee that competitors will repeatedly assault any business 
"castle" that is earning high returns. Therefore a formidable barrier such as a company's being the lowcost 
producer (GEICO, Costco) or possessing a powerful worldwide brand (CocaCola, Gillette, American 
Express) is essential for sustained success. Business history is filled with "Roman Candles," companies 
whose moats proved illusory and were soon crossed. 

 

 Our criterion of "enduring" causes us to rule out companies in industries prone to rapid and 
continuous change. Though capitalism's "creative destruction" is highly beneficial for society, it precludes 
investment certainty. A moat that must be continuously rebuilt will eventually be no moat at all. 

 

 Additionally, this criterion eliminates the business whose success depends on having a great 
manager. Of course, a terrific CEO is a huge asset for any enterprise, and at Berkshire we have an 
abundance of these managers. Their abilities have created billions of dollars of value that would never 
have materialized if typical CEOs had been running their businesses. 

 

 But if a business requires a superstar to produce great results, the business itself cannot be deemed 
great. A medical partnership led by your area's premier brain surgeon may enjoy outsized and growing 
earnings, but that tells little about its future. The partnership's moat will go when the surgeon goes. You 
can count, though, on the moat of the Mayo Clinic to endure, even though you can't name its CEO. 

 


 Longterm competitive advantage in a stable industry is what we seek in a business. If that comes 
with rapid organic growth, great. But even without organic growth, such a business is rewarding. We will 

simply take the lush earnings of the business and use them to buy similar businesses elsewhere. There's no 

rule that you have to invest money where you've earned it. Indeed, it's often a mistake to do so: Truly 
great businesses, earning huge returns on tangible assets, can't for any extended period reinvest a large 
portion of their earnings internally at high rates of return. 

 

 Let's look at the prototype of a dream business, our own See's Candy. The boxedchocolates 
industry in which it operates is unexciting: Percapita consumption in the U.S. is extremely low and doesn't 
grow. Many onceimportant brands have disappeared, and only three companies have earned more than 
token profits over the last forty years. Indeed, I believe that See's, though it obtains the bulk of its revenues 
from only a few states, accounts for nearly half of the entire industry's earnings. 

 

 At See's, annual sales were 16 million pounds of candy when Blue Chip Stamps purchased the 
company in 1972. (Charlie and I controlled Blue Chip at the time and later merged it into Berkshire.) Last 
year See's sold 31 million pounds, a growth rate of only 2% annually. Yet its durable competitive 
advantage, built by the See's family over a 50year period, and strengthened subsequently by Chuck 
Huggins and Brad Kinstler, has produced extraordinary results for Berkshire. 

 

 We bought See's for $25 million when its sales were $30 million and pretax earnings were less 
than $5 million. The capital then required to conduct the business was $8 million. (Modest seasonal debt 
was also needed for a few months each year.) Consequently, the company was earning 60% pretax on 
invested capital. Two factors helped to minimize the funds required for operations. First, the product was 
sold for cash, and that eliminated accounts receivable. Second, the production and distribution cycle was 
short, which minimized inventories. 

 

 Last year See's sales were $383 million, and pretax profits were $82 million. The capital now 
required to run the business is $40 million. This means we have had to reinvest only $32 million since 
1972 to handle the modest physical growth - and somewhat immodest financial growth - of the business. 
In the meantime pretax earnings have totaled $1.35 billion. All of that, except for the $32 million, has 
been sent to Berkshire (or, in the early years, to Blue Chip). After paying corporate taxes on the profits, we 
have used the rest to buy other attractive businesses. Just as Adam and Eve kickstarted an activity that led 
to six billion humans, See's has given birth to multiple new streams of cash for us. (The biblical command 
to "be fruitful and multiply" is one we take seriously at Berkshire.) 

 

 There aren't many See's in Corporate America. Typically, companies that increase their earnings 
from $5 million to $82 million require, say, $400 million or so of capital investment to finance their 
growth. That's because growing businesses have both working capital needs that increase in proportion to 
sales growth and significant requirements for fixed asset investments. 

 

 A company that needs large increases in capital to engender its growth may well prove to be a 
satisfactory investment. There is, to follow through on our example, nothing shabby about earning $82 
million pretax on $400 million of net tangible assets. But that equation for the owner is vastly different 
from the See's situation. It's far better to have an everincreasing stream of earnings with virtually no 
major capital requirements. Ask Microsoft or Google. 

 

 One example of good, but far from sensational, business economics is our own FlightSafety. This 
company delivers benefits to its customers that are the equal of those delivered by any business that I know 
of. It also possesses a durable competitive advantage: Going to any other flighttraining provider than the 
best is like taking the low bid on a surgical procedure. 


 Nevertheless, this business requires a significant reinvestment of earnings if it is to grow. When 
we purchased FlightSafety in 1996, its pretax operating earnings were $111 million, and its net investment 
in fixed assets was $570 million. Since our purchase, depreciation charges have totaled $923 million. But 
capital expenditures have totaled $1.635 billion, most of that for simulators to match the new airplane 
models that are constantly being introduced. (A simulator can cost us more than $12 million, and we have 
273 of them.) Our fixed assets, after depreciation, now amount to $1.079 billion. Pretax operating 
earnings in 2007 were $270 million, a gain of $159 million since 1996. That gain gave us a good, but far 
from See'slike, return on our incremental investment of $509 million. 

 

 Consequently, if measured only by economic returns, FlightSafety is an excellent but not 
extraordinary business. Its putupmoretoearnmore experience is that faced by most corporations. For 
example, our large investment in regulated utilities falls squarely in this category. We will earn 
considerably more money in this business ten years from now, but we will invest many billions to make it. 

 

 Now let's move to the gruesome. The worst sort of business is one that grows rapidly, requires 
significant capital to engender the growth, and then earns little or no money. Think airlines. Here a 
durable competitive advantage has proven elusive ever since the days of the Wright Brothers. Indeed, if a 
farsighted capitalist had been present at Kitty Hawk, he would have done his successors a huge favor by 
shooting Orville down. 

 

 The airline industry's demand for capital ever since that first flight has been insatiable. Investors 
have poured money into a bottomless pit, attracted by growth when they should have been repelled by it. 
And I, to my shame, participated in this foolishness when I had Berkshire buy U.S. Air preferred stock in 
1989. As the ink was drying on our check, the company went into a tailspin, and before long our preferred 
dividend was no longer being paid. But we then got very lucky. In one of the recurrent, but always 
misguided, bursts of optimism for airlines, we were actually able to sell our shares in 1998 for a hefty gain. 
In the decade following our sale, the company went bankrupt. Twice. 

 

 To sum up, think of three types of "savings accounts." The great one pays an extraordinarily high 
interest rate that will rise as the years pass. The good one pays an attractive rate of interest that will be 
earned also on deposits that are added. Finally, the gruesome account both pays an inadequate interest rate 
and requires you to keep adding money at those disappointing returns. 


 And now it's confession time. It should be noted that no consultant, board of directors or 
investment banker pushed me into the mistakes I will describe. In tennis parlance, they were all unforced 
errors. 

 

 To begin with, I almost blew the See's purchase. The seller was asking $30 million, and I was 
adamant about not going above $25 million. Fortunately, he caved. Otherwise I would have balked, and 
that $1.35 billion would have gone to somebody else. 

 

 About the time of the See's purchase, Tom Murphy, then running Capital Cities Broadcasting, 
called and offered me the DallasFort Worth NBC station for $35 million. The station came with the Fort 
Worth paper that Capital Cities was buying, and under the "crossownership" rules Murph had to divest it. 
I knew that TV stations were See'slike businesses that required virtually no capital investment and had 
excellent prospects for growth. They were simple to run and showered cash on their owners. 

 

 Moreover, Murph, then as now, was a close friend, a man I admired as an extraordinary manager 
and outstanding human being. He knew the television business forward and backward and would not have 
called me unless he felt a purchase was certain to work. In effect Murph whispered "buy" into my ear. But 
I didn't listen. 

 

 In 2006, the station earned $73 million pretax, bringing its total earnings since I turned down the 
deal to at least $1 billion - almost all available to its owner for other purposes. Moreover, the property now 
has a capital value of about $800 million. Why did I say "no"? The only explanation is that my brain had 
gone on vacation and forgot to notify me. (My behavior resembled that of a politician Molly Ivins once 
described: "If his I.Q. was any lower, you would have to water him twice a day.") 

 

 Finally, I made an even worse mistake when I said "yes" to Dexter, a shoe business I bought in 
1993 for $433 million in Berkshire stock (25,203 shares of A). What I had assessed as durable competitive 
advantage vanished within a few years. But that's just the beginning: By using Berkshire stock, I 
compounded this error hugely. That move made the cost to Berkshire shareholders not $400 million, but 
rather $3.5 billion. In essence, I gave away 1.6% of a wonderful business - one now valued at $220 billion 
- to buy a worthless business. 

 

 To date, Dexter is the worst deal that I've made. But I'll make more mistakes in the future - you 
can bet on that. A line from Bobby Bare's country song explains what too often happens with acquisitions: 
"I've never gone to bed with an ugly woman, but I've sure woke up with a few." 
 

 Now, let's examine the four major operating sectors of Berkshire. Each sector has vastly different 
balance sheet and income account characteristics. Therefore, lumping them together impedes analysis. So 
we'll present them as four separate businesses, which is how Charlie and I view them. 

 

Insurance 

 

 The best anecdote I've heard during the current presidential campaign came from Mitt Romney, 
who asked his wife, Ann, "When we were young, did you ever in your wildest dreams think I might be 
president?" To which she replied, "Honey, you weren't in my wildest dreams." 

 

 When we first entered the property/casualty insurance business in 1967, my wildest dreams did 
not envision our current operation. Here's how we did in the first five years after purchasing National 
Indemnity: 

 


 This metamorphosis has been accomplished by some extraordinary managers. Let's look at what 
each has achieved. 


 

. GEICO possesses the widest moat of any of our insurers, one carefully protected and expanded by 
Tony Nicely, its CEO. Last year - again - GEICO had the best growth record among major auto 
insurers, increasing its market share to 7.2%. When Berkshire acquired control in 1995, that share 
was 2.5%. Not coincidentally, annual ad expenditures by GEICO have increased from $31 million 
to $751 million during the same period. 


 

Tony, now 64, joined GEICO at 18. Every day since, he has been passionate about the company - 
proud of how it could both save money for its customers and provide growth opportunities for its 
associates. Even now, with sales at $12 billion, Tony feels GEICO is just getting started. So do I. 

 

Here's some evidence. In the last three years, GEICO has increased its share of the motorcycle 
market from 2.1% to 6%. We've also recently begun writing policies on ATVs and RVs. And in 
November we wrote our first commercial auto policy. GEICO and National Indemnity are 
working together in the commercial field, and early results are very encouraging. 

 

Even in aggregate, these lines will remain a small fraction of our personal auto volume. 
Nevertheless, they should deliver a growing stream of underwriting profits and float. 

 

. General Re, our international reinsurer, is by far our largest source of "homegrown" float - $23 
billion at yearend. This operation is now a huge asset for Berkshire. Our ownership, however, 
had a shaky start. 


 

For decades, General Re was the Tiffany of reinsurers, admired by all for its underwriting skills 
and discipline. This reputation, unfortunately, outlived its factual underpinnings, a flaw that I 
completely missed when I made the decision in 1998 to merge with General Re. The General Re 
of 1998 was not operated as the General Re of 1968 or 1978. 

 

Now, thanks to Joe Brandon, General Re's CEO, and his partner, Tad Montross, the luster of the 
company has been restored. Joe and Tad have been running the business for six years and have 
been doing firstclass business in a firstclass way, to use the words of J. P. Morgan. They have 
restored discipline to underwriting, reserving and the selection of clients. 

 

Their job was made more difficult by costly and timeconsuming legacy problems, both in the 
U.S. and abroad. Despite that diversion, Joe and Tad have delivered excellent underwriting results 
while skillfully repositioning the company for the future. 

 

. Since joining Berkshire in 1986, Ajit Jain has built a truly great specialty reinsurance operation 
from scratch. For oneofakind mammoth transactions, the world now turns to him. 


 

Last year I told you in detail about the Equitas transfer of huge, but capped, liabilities to Berkshire 
for a single premium of $7.1 billion. At this very early date, our experience has been good. But 
this doesn't tell us much because it's just one straw in a fiftyyearormore wind. What we know 
for sure, however, is that the London team who joined us, headed by Scott Moser, is firstrate and 
has become a valuable asset for our insurance business. 

 

. Finally, we have our smaller operations, which serve specialized segments of the insurance 
market. In aggregate, these companies have performed extraordinarily well, earning aboveaverage 
underwriting profits and delivering valuable float for investment. 


 

Last year BoatU.S., headed by Bill Oakerson, was added to the group. This company manages an 
association of about 650,000 boat owners, providing them services similar to those offered by 
AAA auto clubs to drivers. Among the association's offerings is boat insurance. Learn more 
about this operation by visiting its display at the annual meeting. 

 


Below we show the record of our four categories of property/casualty insurance. 

 

 


 

Regulated Utility Business 

 

 Berkshire has an 87.4% (diluted) interest in MidAmerican Energy Holdings, which owns a wide 
variety of utility operations. The largest of these are (1) Yorkshire Electricity and Northern Electric, whose 
3.8 million electric customers make it the third largest distributor of electricity in the U.K.; (2) 
MidAmerican Energy, which serves 720,000 electric customers, primarily in Iowa; (3) Pacific Power and 
Rocky Mountain Power, serving about 1.7 million electric customers in six western states; and (4) Kern 
River and Northern Natural pipelines, which carry about 8% of the natural gas consumed in the U.S. 

 

Our partners in ownership of MidAmerican are Walter Scott, and its two terrific managers, Dave 
Sokol and Greg Abel. It's unimportant how many votes each party has; we make major moves only when 
we are unanimous in thinking them wise. Eight years of working with Dave, Greg and Walter have 
underscored my original belief: Berkshire couldn't have better partners. 

 

 Somewhat incongruously, MidAmerican also owns the second largest real estate brokerage firm in 
the U.S., HomeServices of America. This company operates through 20 locallybranded firms with 18,800 
agents. Last year was a slow year for residential sales, and 2008 will probably be slower. We will 
continue, however, to acquire quality brokerage operations when they are available at sensible prices. 

 

 Here are some key figures on MidAmerican's operation: 

 

 


 We agreed to purchase 35,464,337 shares of MidAmerican at $35.05 per share in 1999, a year in 
which its pershare earnings were $2.59. Why the odd figure of $35.05? I originally decided the business 
was worth $35.00 per share to Berkshire. Now, I'm a "oneprice" guy (remember See's?) and for several 
days the investment bankers representing MidAmerican had no luck in getting me to increase Berkshire's 
offer. But, finally, they caught me in a moment of weakness, and I caved, telling them I would go to 
$35.05. With that, I explained, they could tell their client they had wrung the last nickel out of me. At the 
time, it hurt. 

 

 Later on, in 2002, Berkshire purchased 6,700,000 shares at $60 to help finance the acquisition of 
one of our pipelines. Lastly, in 2006, when MidAmerican bought PacifiCorp, we purchased 23,268,793 
shares at $145 per share. 

 

 In 2007, MidAmerican earned $15.78 per share. However, 77? of that was nonrecurring - a 
reduction in deferred tax at our British utility, resulting from a lowering of the U.K. corporate tax rate. So 
call normalized earnings $15.01 per share. And yes, I'm glad I wilted and offered the extra nickel. 

 

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing Operations 

 

 Our activities in this part of Berkshire cover the waterfront. Let's look, though, at a summary 
balance sheet and earnings statement for the entire group. 

 

Balance Sheet 12/31/07 (in millions) 

 

 


 

 This motley group, which sells products ranging from lollipops to motor homes, earned a pleasing 
23% on average tangible net worth last year. It's noteworthy also that these operations used only minor 
financial leverage in achieving that return. Clearly we own some terrific businesses. We purchased many 
of them, however, at large premiums to net worth - a point reflected in the goodwill item shown on the 
balance sheet - and that fact reduces the earnings on our average carrying value to 9.8%. 

 


 Here are a few newsworthy items about companies in this sector: 

 

. Shaw, Acme Brick, Johns Manville and MiTek were all hurt in 2007 by the sharp housing 
downturn, with their pretax earnings declining 27%, 41%, 38%, and 9% respectively. Overall, 
these companies earned $941 million pretax compared to $1.296 billion in 2006. 


 

Last year, Shaw, MiTek and Acme contracted for tuckin acquisitions that will help future 
earnings. You can be sure they will be looking for more of these. 

 

. In a tough year for retailing, our standouts were See's, Borsheims and Nebraska Furniture Mart. 


 

Two years ago Brad Kinstler was made CEO of See's. We very seldom move managers from one 
industry to another at Berkshire. But we made an exception with Brad, who had previously run 
our uniform company, Fechheimer, and Cypress Insurance. The move could not have worked out 
better. In his two years, profits at See's have increased more than 50%. 

 

At Borsheims, sales increased 15.1%, helped by a 27% gain during Shareholder Weekend. Two 
years ago, Susan Jacques suggested that we remodel and expand the store. I was skeptical, but 
Susan was right. 

 

Susan came to Borsheims 25 years ago as a $4anhour saleswoman. Though she lacked a 
managerial background, I did not hesitate to make her CEO in 1994. She's smart, she loves the 
business, and she loves her associates. That beats having an MBA degree any time. 

 

(An aside: Charlie and I are not big fans of resumes. Instead, we focus on brains, passion and 
integrity. Another of our great managers is Cathy Baron Tamraz, who has significantly increased 
Business Wire's earnings since we purchased it early in 2006. She is an owner's dream. It is 
positively dangerous to stand between Cathy and a business prospect. Cathy, it should be noted, 
began her career as a cab driver.) 

 

Finally, at Nebraska Furniture Mart, earnings hit a record as our Omaha and Kansas City stores 
each had sales of about $400 million. These, by some margin, are the two top home furnishings 
stores in the country. In a disastrous year for many furniture retailers, sales at Kansas City 
increased 8%, while in Omaha the gain was 6%. 

 

Credit the remarkable Blumkin brothers, Ron and Irv, for this performance. Both are close 
personal friends of mine and great businessmen. 

 

. Iscar continues its wondrous ways. Its products are small carbide cutting tools that make large and 
very expensive machine tools more productive. The raw material for carbide is tungsten, mined in 
China. For many decades, Iscar moved tungsten to Israel, where brains turned it into something 
far more valuable. Late in 2007, Iscar opened a large plant in Dalian, China. In effect, we've now 
moved the brains to the tungsten. Major opportunities for growth await Iscar. Its management 
team, led by Eitan Wertheimer, Jacob Harpaz, and Danny Goldman, is certain to make the most of 
them. 


 

. Flight services set a record in 2007 with pretax earnings increasing 49% to $547 million. 
Corporate aviation had an extraordinary year worldwide, and both of our companies - as runaway 
leaders in their fields - fully participated. 


FlightSafety, our pilot training business, gained 14% in revenues and 20% in pretax earnings. 
We estimate that we train about 58% of U.S. corporate pilots. Bruce Whitman, the company's 
CEO, inherited this leadership position in 2003 from Al Ueltschi, the father of advanced flight 
training, and has proved to be a worthy successor. 





At NetJets, the inventor of fractionalownership of jets, we also remain the unchallenged leader. 
We now operate 487 planes in the U.S. and 135 in Europe, a fleet more than twice the size of that 
operated by our three major competitors combined. Because our share of the largecabin market is 
near 90%, our lead in value terms is far greater. 

 

The NetJets brand - with its promise of safety, service and security - grows stronger every year. 
Behind this is the passion of one man, Richard Santulli. If you were to pick someone to join you 
in a foxhole, you couldn't do better than Rich. No matter what the obstacles, he just doesn't stop. 

 

Europe is the best example of how Rich's tenacity leads to success. For the first ten years we 
made little financial progress there, actually running up cumulative losses of $212 million. After 
Rich brought Mark Booth on board to run Europe, however, we began to gain traction. Now we 
have real momentum, and last year earnings tripled. 

 

In November, our directors met at NetJets headquarters in Columbus and got a look at the 
sophisticated operation there. It is responsible for 1,000 or so flights a day in all kinds of weather, 
with customers expecting topnotch service. Our directors came away impressed by the facility 
and its capabilities - but even more impressed by Rich and his associates. 




 

Finance and Finance Products 

 

 Our major operation in this category is Clayton Homes, the largest U.S. manufacturer and 
marketer of manufactured homes. Clayton's market share hit a record 31% last year. But industry volume 
continues to shrink: Last year, manufactured home sales were 96,000, down from 131,000 in 2003, the 
year we bought Clayton. (At the time, it should be remembered, some commentators criticized its directors 
for selling at a cyclical bottom.) 

 

 Though Clayton earns money from both manufacturing and retailing its homes, most of its 
earnings come from an $11 billion loan portfolio, covering 300,000 borrowers. That's why we include 
Clayton's operation in this finance section. Despite the many problems that surfaced during 2007 in real 
estate finance, the Clayton portfolio is performing well. Delinquencies, foreclosures and losses during the 
year were at rates similar to those we experienced in our previous years of ownership. 

 

 Clayton's loan portfolio is financed by Berkshire. For this funding, we charge Clayton one 
percentage point over Berkshire's borrowing cost - a fee that amounted to $85 million last year. Clayton's 
2007 pretax earnings of $526 million are after its paying this fee. The flip side of this transaction is that 
Berkshire recorded $85 million as income, which is included in "other" in the following table. 

 



 The leasing operations tabulated are XTRA, which rents trailers, and CORT, which rents furniture. 
Utilization of trailers was down considerably in 2007 and that led to a drop in earnings at XTRA. That 
company also borrowed $400 million last year and distributed the proceeds to Berkshire. The resulting 
higher interest it is now paying further reduced XTRA's earnings. 


 Clayton, XTRA and CORT are all good businesses, very ably run by Kevin Clayton, Bill Franz 
and Paul Arnold. Each has made tuckin acquisitions during Berkshire's ownership. More will come. 

 

Investments 

 

 We show below our common stock investments at yearend, itemizing those with a market value of 
at least $600 million. 

 

 

 


 

 Overall, we are delighted by the business performance of our investees. In 2007, American 
Express, CocaCola and Procter & Gamble, three of our four largest holdings, increased pershare earnings 
by 12%, 14% and 14%. The fourth, Wells Fargo, had a small decline in earnings because of the popping of 
the real estate bubble. Nevertheless, I believe its intrinsic value increased, even if only by a minor amount. 

 

 In the strange world department, note that American Express and Wells Fargo were both 
organized by Henry Wells and William Fargo, Amex in 1850 and Wells in 1852. P&G and Coke began 
business in 1837 and 1886 respectively. Startups are not our game. 

 

 I should emphasize that we do not measure the progress of our investments by what their market 
prices do during any given year. Rather, we evaluate their performance by the two methods we apply to the 
businesses we own. The first test is improvement in earnings, with our making due allowance for industry 
conditions. The second test, more subjective, is whether their "moats" - a metaphor for the superiorities 
they possess that make life difficult for their competitors - have widened during the year. All of the "big 
four" scored positively on that test. 


 We made one large sale last year. In 2002 and 2003 Berkshire bought 1.3% of PetroChina for 
$488 million, a price that valued the entire business at about $37 billion. Charlie and I then felt that the 
company was worth about $100 billion. By 2007, two factors had materially increased its value: the price 
of oil had climbed significantly, and PetroChina's management had done a great job in building oil and gas 
reserves. In the second half of last year, the market value of the company rose to $275 billion, about what 
we thought it was worth compared to other giant oil companies. So we sold our holdings for $4 billion. 

 

 A footnote: We paid the IRS tax of $1.2 billion on our PetroChina gain. This sum paid all costs of 
the U.S. government - defense, social security, you name it - for about four hours. 


 Last year I told you that Berkshire had 62 derivative contracts that I manage. (We also have a few 
left in the General Re runoff book.) Today, we have 94 of these, and they fall into two categories. 

 

 First, we have written 54 contracts that require us to make payments if certain bonds that are 
included in various highyield indices default. These contracts expire at various times from 2009 to 2013. 
At yearend we had received $3.2 billion in premiums on these contracts; had paid $472 million in losses; 
and in the worst case (though it is extremely unlikely to occur) could be required to pay an additional $4.7 
billion. 

 

 We are certain to make many more payments. But I believe that on premium revenues alone, 
these contracts will prove profitable, leaving aside what we can earn on the large sums we hold. Our 
yearend liability for this exposure was recorded at $1.8 billion and is included in "Derivative Contract 
Liabilities" on our balance sheet. 

 

 The second category of contracts involves various put options we have sold on four stock indices 
(the S&P 500 plus three foreign indices). These puts had original terms of either 15 or 20 years and were 
struck at the market. We have received premiums of $4.5 billion, and we recorded a liability at yearend of 
$4.6 billion. The puts in these contracts are exercisable only at their expiration dates, which occur between 
2019 and 2027, and Berkshire will then need to make a payment only if the index in question is quoted at a 
level below that existing on the day that the put was written. Again, I believe these contracts, in aggregate, 
will be profitable and that we will, in addition, receive substantial income from our investment of the 
premiums we hold during the 15 or 20year period. 

 

 Two aspects of our derivative contracts are particularly important. First, in all cases we hold the 
money, which means that we have no counterparty risk. 

 

 Second, accounting rules for our derivative contracts differ from those applying to our investment 
portfolio. In that portfolio, changes in value are applied to the net worth shown on Berkshire's balance 
sheet, but do not affect earnings unless we sell (or write down) a holding. Changes in the value of a 
derivative contract, however, must be applied each quarter to earnings. 

 

 Thus, our derivative positions will sometimes cause large swings in reported earnings, even 
though Charlie and I might believe the intrinsic value of these positions has changed little. He and I will 
not be bothered by these swings - even though they could easily amount to $1 billion or more in a quarter - 
and we hope you won't be either. You will recall that in our catastrophe insurance business, we are always 
ready to trade increased volatility in reported earnings in the short run for greater gains in net worth in the 
long run. That is our philosophy in derivatives as well. 



 The U.S. dollar weakened further in 2007 against major currencies, and it's no mystery why: 
Americans like buying products made elsewhere more than the rest of the world likes buying products 
made in the U.S. Inevitably, that causes America to ship about $2 billion of IOUs and assets daily to the 
rest of the world. And over time, that puts pressure on the dollar. 


 When the dollar falls, it both makes our products cheaper for foreigners to buy and their products 
more expensive for U.S. citizens. That's why a falling currency is supposed to cure a trade deficit. Indeed, 
the U.S. deficit has undoubtedly been tempered by the large drop in the dollar. But ponder this: In 2002 
when the Euro averaged 94.6?, our trade deficit with Germany (the fifth largest of our trading partners) was 
$36 billion, whereas in 2007, with the Euro averaging $1.37, our deficit with Germany was up to $45 
billion. Similarly, the Canadian dollar averaged 64? in 2002 and 93? in 2007. Yet our trade deficit with 
Canada rose as well, from $50 billion in 2002 to $64 billion in 2007. So far, at least, a plunging dollar has 
not done much to bring our trade activity into balance. 

 

 There's been much talk recently of sovereign wealth funds and how they are buying large pieces 
of American businesses. This is our doing, not some nefarious plot by foreign governments. Our trade 
equation guarantees massive foreign investment in the U.S. When we forcefeed $2 billion daily to the rest 
of the world, they must invest in something here. Why should we complain when they choose stocks over 
bonds? 

 

 Our country's weakening currency is not the fault of OPEC, China, etc. Other developed 
countries rely on imported oil and compete against Chinese imports just as we do. In developing a sensible 
trade policy, the U.S. should not single out countries to punish or industries to protect. Nor should we take 
actions likely to evoke retaliatory behavior that will reduce America's exports, true trade that benefits both 
our country and the rest of the world. 

 

 Our legislators should recognize, however, that the current imbalances are unsustainable and 
should therefore adopt policies that will materially reduce them sooner rather than later. Otherwise our $2 
billion daily of forcefed dollars to the rest of the world may produce global indigestion of an unpleasant 
sort. (For other comments about the unsustainability of our trade deficits, see Alan Greenspan's comments 
on November 19, 2004, the Federal Open Market Committee's minutes of June 29, 2004, and Ben 
Bernanke's statement on September 11, 2007.) 

 At Berkshire we held only one direct currency position during 2007. That was in - hold your 
breath - the Brazilian real. Not long ago, swapping dollars for reals would have been unthinkable. After 
all, during the past century five versions of Brazilian currency have, in effect, turned into confetti. As has 
been true in many countries whose currencies have periodically withered and died, wealthy Brazilians 
sometimes stashed large sums in the U.S. to preserve their wealth. 

 

 But any Brazilian who followed this apparently prudent course would have lost half his net worth 
over the past five years. Here's the yearbyyear record (indexed) of the real versus the dollar from the end 
of 2002 to yearend 2007: 100; 122; 133; 152; 166; 199. Every year the real went up and the dollar fell. 
Moreover, during much of this period the Brazilian government was actually holding down the value of the 
real and supporting our currency by buying dollars in the market. 

 

 Our direct currency positions have yielded $2.3 billion of pretax profits over the past five years, 
and in addition we have profited by holding bonds of U.S. companies that are denominated in other 
currencies. For example, in 2001 and 2002 we purchased ?310 million Amazon.com, Inc. 6 7/8 of 2010 at 
57% of par. At the time, Amazon bonds were priced as "junk" credits, though they were anything but. 
(Yes, Virginia, you can occasionally find markets that are ridiculously inefficient - or at least you can find 
them anywhere except at the finance departments of some leading business schools.) 

 

 The Euro denomination of the Amazon bonds was a further, and important, attraction for us. The 
Euro was at 95? when we bought in 2002. Therefore, our cost in dollars came to only $169 million. Now 
the bonds sell at 102% of par and the Euro is worth $1.47. In 2005 and 2006 some of our bonds were 
called and we received $253 million for them. Our remaining bonds were valued at $162 million at 
yearend. Of our $246 million of realized and unrealized gain, about $118 million is attributable to the fall 
in the dollar. Currencies do matter. 


 At Berkshire, we will attempt to further increase our stream of direct and indirect foreign earnings. 
Even if we are successful, however, our assets and earnings will always be concentrated in the U.S. 
Despite our country's many imperfections and unrelenting problems of one sort or another, America's rule 
of law, marketresponsive economic system, and belief in meritocracy are almost certain to produce evergrowing 
prosperity for its citizens. 



 As I have told you before, we have for some time been wellprepared for CEO succession because 
we have three outstanding internal candidates. The board knows exactly whom it would pick if I were to 
become unavailable, either because of death or diminishing abilities. And that would still leave the board 
with two backups. 

 

 Last year I told you that we would also promptly complete a succession plan for the investment 
job at Berkshire, and we have indeed now identified four candidates who could succeed me in managing 
investments. All manage substantial sums currently, and all have indicated a strong interest in coming to 
Berkshire if called. The board knows the strengths of the four and would expect to hire one or more if the 
need arises. The candidates are young to middleaged, welltodo to rich, and all wish to work for 
Berkshire for reasons that go beyond compensation. 

 

 (I've reluctantly discarded the notion of my continuing to manage the portfolio after my death - 
abandoning my hope to give new meaning to the term "thinking outside the box.") 

 

Fanciful Figures - How Public Companies Juice Earnings 

 

 Former Senator Alan Simpson famously said: "Those who travel the high road in Washington 
need not fear heavy traffic." If he had sought truly deserted streets, however, the Senator should have 
looked to Corporate America's accounting. 

 

 An important referendum on which road businesses prefer occurred in 1994. America's CEOs had 
just strongarmed the U.S. Senate into ordering the Financial Accounting Standards Board to shut up, by a 
vote that was 889. Before that rebuke the FASB had shown the audacity - by unanimous agreement, no 
less - to tell corporate chieftains that the stock options they were being awarded represented a form of 
compensation and that their value should be recorded as an expense. 

 

 After the senators voted, the FASB - now educated on accounting principles by the Senate's 88 
closet CPAs - decreed that companies could choose between two methods of reporting on options. The 
preferred treatment would be to expense their value, but it would also be allowable for companies to ignore 
the expense as long as their options were issued at market value. 

 

 A moment of truth had now arrived for America's CEOs, and their reaction was not a pretty sight. 
During the next six years, exactly two of the 500 companies in the S&P chose the preferred route. CEOs of 
the rest opted for the low road, thereby ignoring a large and obvious expense in order to report higher 
"earnings." I'm sure some of them also felt that if they opted for expensing, their directors might in future 
years think twice before approving the megagrants the managers longed for. 

 

 It turned out that for many CEOs even the low road wasn't good enough. Under the weakened 
rule, there remained earnings consequences if options were issued with a strike price below market value. 
No problem. To avoid that bothersome rule, a number of companies surreptitiously backdated options to 
falsely indicate that they were granted at current market prices, when in fact they were dished out at prices 
well below market. 

 

 Decades of optionaccounting nonsense have now been put to rest, but other accounting choices 
remain - important among these the investmentreturn assumption a company uses in calculating pension 
expense. It will come as no surprise that many companies continue to choose an assumption that allows 
them to report lessthansolid "earnings." For the 363 companies in the S&P that have pension plans, this 
assumption in 2006 averaged 8%. Let's look at the chances of that being achieved. 


 The average holdings of bonds and cash for all pension funds is about 28%, and on these assets 
returns can be expected to be no more than 5%. Higher yields, of course, are obtainable but they carry with 
them a risk of commensurate (or greater) loss. 

 

 This means that the remaining 72% of assets - which are mostly in equities, either held directly or 
through vehicles such as hedge funds or privateequity investments - must earn 9.2% in order for the fund 
overall to achieve the postulated 8%. And that return must be delivered after all fees, which are now far 
higher than they have ever been. 

 

 How realistic is this expectation? Let's revisit some data I mentioned two years ago: During the 
20th Century, the Dow advanced from 66 to 11,497. This gain, though it appears huge, shrinks to 5.3% 
when compounded annually. An investor who owned the Dow throughout the century would also have 
received generous dividends for much of the period, but only about 2% or so in the final years. It was a 
wonderful century. 

 

 Think now about this century. For investors to merely match that 5.3% marketvalue gain, the 
Dow - recently below 13,000 - would need to close at about 2,000,000 on December 31, 2099. We are 
now eight years into this century, and we have racked up less than 2,000 of the 1,988,000 Dow points the 
market needed to travel in this hundred years to equal the 5.3% of the last. 

 

 It's amusing that commentators regularly hyperventilate at the prospect of the Dow crossing an 
even number of thousands, such as 14,000 or 15,000. If they keep reacting that way, a 5.3% annual gain 
for the century will mean they experience at least 1,986 seizures during the next 92 years. While anything 
is possible, does anyone really believe this is the most likely outcome? 

 

 Dividends continue to run about 2%. Even if stocks were to average the 5.3% annual appreciation 
of the 1900s, the equity portion of plan assets - allowing for expenses of .5% - would produce no more 
than 7% or so. And .5% may well understate costs, given the presence of layers of consultants and highpriced 
managers ("helpers"). 

 

 Naturally, everyone expects to be above average. And those helpers - bless their hearts - will 
certainly encourage their clients in this belief. But, as a class, the helperaided group must be below 
average. The reason is simple: 1) Investors, overall, will necessarily earn an average return, minus costs 
they incur; 2) Passive and index investors, through their very inactivity, will earn that average minus costs 
that are very low; 3) With that group earning average returns, so must the remaining group - the active 
investors. But this group will incur high transaction, management, and advisory costs. Therefore, the 
active investors will have their returns diminished by a far greater percentage than will their inactive 
brethren. That means that the passive group - the "knownothings" - must win. 

 

 I should mention that people who expect to earn 10% annually from equities during this century - 
envisioning that 2% of that will come from dividends and 8% from price appreciation - are implicitly 
forecasting a level of about 24,000,000 on the Dow by 2100. If your adviser talks to you about doubledigit 
returns from equities, explain this math to him - not that it will faze him. Many helpers are apparently 
direct descendants of the queen in Alice in Wonderland, who said: "Why, sometimes I've believed as many 
as six impossible things before breakfast." Beware the glib helper who fills your head with fantasies while 
he fills his pockets with fees. 

 

 Some companies have pension plans in Europe as well as in the U.S. and, in their accounting, 
almost all assume that the U.S. plans will earn more than the nonU.S. plans. This discrepancy is puzzling: 
Why should these companies not put their U.S. managers in charge of the nonU.S. pension assets and let 
them work their magic on these assets as well? I've never seen this puzzle explained. But the auditors and 
actuaries who are charged with vetting the return assumptions seem to have no problem with it. 


 What is no puzzle, however, is why CEOs opt for a high investment assumption: It lets them 
report higher earnings. And if they are wrong, as I believe they are, the chickens won't come home to roost 
until long after they retire. 

 

 After decades of pushing the envelope - or worse - in its attempt to report the highest number 
possible for current earnings, Corporate America should ease up. It should listen to my partner, Charlie: "If 
you've hit three balls out of bounds to the left, aim a little to the right on the next swing." 



 Whatever pensioncost surprises are in store for shareholders down the road, these jolts will be 
surpassed many times over by those experienced by taxpayers. Public pension promises are huge and, in 
many cases, funding is woefully inadequate. Because the fuse on this time bomb is long, politicians flinch 
from inflicting tax pain, given that problems will only become apparent long after these officials have 
departed. Promises involving very early retirement - sometimes to those in their low 40s - and generous 
costofliving adjustments are easy for these officials to make. In a world where people are living longer 
and inflation is certain, those promises will be anything but easy to keep. 



 Having laid out the failures of an "honor system" in American accounting, I need to point out that 
this is exactly the system existing at Berkshire for a truly huge balancesheet item. In every report we 
make to you, we must guesstimate the loss reserves for our insurance units. If our estimate is wrong, it 
means that both our balance sheet and our earnings statement will be wrong. So naturally we do our best to 
make these guesses accurate. Nevertheless, in every report our estimate is sure to be wrong. 

 

 At yearend 2007, we show an insurance liability of $56 billion that represents our guess as to what 
we will eventually pay for all loss events that occurred before yearend (except for about $3 billion of the 
reserve that has been discounted to present value). We know of many thousands of events and have put a 
dollar value on each that reflects what we believe we will pay, including the associated costs (such as 
attorney's fees) that we will incur in the payment process. In some cases, among them claims for certain 
serious injuries covered by worker's compensation, payments will be made for 50 years or more. 

 

 We also include a large reserve for losses that occurred before yearend but that we have yet to hear 
about. Sometimes, the insured itself does not know that a loss has occurred. (Think of an embezzlement 
that remains undiscovered for years.) We sometimes hear about losses from policies that covered our 
insured many decades ago. 

 

 A story I told you some years back illustrates our problem in accurately estimating our loss 
liability: A fellow was on an important business trip in Europe when his sister called to tell him that their 
dad had died. Her brother explained that he couldn't get back but said to spare nothing on the funeral, 
whose cost he would cover. When he returned, his sister told him that the service had been beautiful and 
presented him with bills totaling $8,000. He paid up but a month later received a bill from the mortuary for 
$10. He paid that, too - and still another $10 charge he received a month later. When a third $10 invoice 
was sent to him the following month, the perplexed man called his sister to ask what was going on. "Oh," 
she replied, "I forgot to tell you. We buried Dad in a rented suit." 

 

 At our insurance companies we have an unknown, but most certainly large, number of "rented 
suits" buried around the world. We try to estimate the bill for them accurately. In ten or twenty years, we 
will even be able to make a good guess as to how inaccurate our present guess is. But even that guess will 
be subject to surprises. I personally believe our stated reserves are adequate, but I've been wrong several 
times in the past. 


The Annual Meeting 

 

 Our meeting this year will be held on Saturday, May 3rd. As always, the doors will open at the 
Qwest Center at 7 a.m., and a new Berkshire movie will be shown at 8:30. At 9:30 we will go directly to 
the questionandanswer period, which (with a break for lunch at the Qwest's stands) will last until 3:00. 
Then, after a short recess, Charlie and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:15. If you decide to leave 
during the day's question periods, please do so while Charlie is talking. 

 

 The best reason to exit, of course is to shop. We will help you do that by filling the 194,300 
squarefoot hall that adjoins the meeting area with the products of Berkshire subsidiaries. Last year, the 
27,000 people who came to the meeting did their part, and almost every location racked up record sales. 
But you can do better. (If necessary, I'll lock the doors.) 

 

 This year we will again showcase a Clayton home (featuring Acme brick, Shaw carpet, Johns 
Manville insulation, MiTek fasteners, Carefree awnings and NFM furniture). You will find that this 1,550 
squarefoot home, priced at $69,500, delivers exceptional value. And after you purchase the house, 
consider also acquiring the Forest River RV and pontoon boat on display nearby. 

 

 GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of 
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a 
special shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 45 of the 50 jurisdictions in 
which we operate. (One supplemental point: The discount is not additive if you qualify for another, such as 
that given certain groups.) Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save 
you money. For at least 50% of you, I believe we can. 

 

 On Saturday, at the Omaha airport, we will have the usual array of aircraft from NetJets available 
for your inspection. Stop by the NetJets booth at the Qwest to learn about viewing these planes. Come to 
Omaha by bus; leave in your new plane. And take all the hair gel and scissors that you wish on board with 
you. 

 

 Next, if you have any money left, visit the Bookworm, where you will find about 25 books and 
DVDs - all discounted - led again by Poor Charlie's Almanack. Without any advertising or bookstore 
placement, Charlie's book has now remarkably sold nearly 50,000 copies. For those of you who can't 
make the meeting, go to poorcharliesalmanack.com to order a copy. 

 

 An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain 
the credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car 
reservations, we have again signed up American Express (8007996634) to give you special help. Carol 
Pedersen, who handles these matters, does a terrific job for us each year, and I thank her for it. Hotel 
rooms can be hard to find, but work with Carol and you will get one. 

 

 At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, 
we will again be having "Berkshire Weekend" discount pricing. We initiated this special event at NFM 
eleven years ago, and sales during the "Weekend" grew from $5.3 million in 1997 to $30.9 million in 2007. 
This is more volume than most furniture stores register in a year. 

 

 To obtain the Berkshire discount, you must make your purchases between Thursday, May 1st and 
Monday, May 5th inclusive, and also present your meeting credential. The period's special pricing will 
even apply to the products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against 
discounting but which, in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. We 
appreciate their cooperation. NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 10 a.m. 
to 6 p.m. on Sunday. On Saturday this year, from 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m., NFM is having a Baja Beach Bash 
featuring beef and chicken tacos. 


 At Borsheims, we will again have two shareholderonly events. The first will be a cocktail 
reception from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Friday, May 2nd. The second, the main gala, will be held on Sunday, 
May 4th, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. On Saturday, we will be open until 6 p.m. 

 

 We will have huge crowds at Borsheims throughout the weekend. For your convenience, 
therefore, shareholder prices will be available from Monday, April 28th through Saturday, May 10th. 
During that period, please identify yourself as a shareholder by presenting your meeting credentials or a 
brokerage statement that shows you are a Berkshire holder. 

 

 On Sunday, in a tent outside of Borsheims, a blindfolded Patrick Wolff, twice U.S. chess 
champion, will take on all comers - who will have their eyes wide open - in groups of six. Nearby, 
Norman Beck, a remarkable magician from Dallas, will bewilder onlookers. Additionally, we will have 
Bob Hamman and Sharon Osberg, two of the world's top bridge experts, available to play bridge with our 
shareholders on Sunday afternoon. 

 

 Gorat's will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on Sunday, May 4th, and will be 
serving from 4 p.m. until 10 p.m. Last year Gorat's, which seats 240, served 915 dinners on Shareholder 
Sunday. The threeday total was 2,487 including 656 Tbone steaks, the entr俥 preferred by the 
cognoscenti. Please remember that to come to Gorat's on that day, you must have a reservation. To make 
one, call 4025513733 on April 1st (but not before). 

 

 We will again have a reception at 4 p.m. on Saturday afternoon for shareholders who have come 
from outside of North America. Every year our meeting draws many people from around the globe, and 
Charlie and I want to be sure we personally greet those who have come so far. Last year we enjoyed 
meeting more than 400 of you from many dozens of countries. Any shareholder who comes from other 
than the U.S. or Canada will be given a special credential and instructions for attending this function. 



 At 84 and 77, Charlie and I remain lucky beyond our dreams. We were born in America; had 
terrific parents who saw that we got good educations; have enjoyed wonderful families and great health; 
and came equipped with a "business" gene that allows us to prosper in a manner hugely disproportionate to 
that experienced by many people who contribute as much or more to our society's wellbeing. Moreover, 
we have long had jobs that we love, in which we are helped in countless ways by talented and cheerful 
associates. Every day is exciting to us; no wonder we tapdance to work. But nothing is more fun for us 
than getting together with our shareholderpartners at Berkshire's annual meeting. So join us on May 3rd at 
the Qwest for our annual Woodstock for Capitalists. We'll see you there. 

 

 

 


To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.: 

Our 
decrease 
in 
net 
worth 
during 
2008 
was 
$11.5 
billion, 
which 
reduced 
the 
pershare 
book 
value 
of 
both 
our 
Class 
A 
and 
Class 
B 
stock 
by 
9.6%. 
Over 
the 
last 
44 
years 
(that 
is, 
since 
present 
management 
took 
over) 
book 
value 
has 
grown 
from 
$19 
to 
$70,530, 
a 
rate 
of 
20.3% 
compounded 
annually. 


The 
table 
on 
the 
preceding 
page, 
recording 
both 
the 
44year 
performance 
of 
Berkshire's 
book 
value 
and 
the 
S&P 
500 
index, 
shows 
that 
2008 
was 
the 
worst 
year 
for 
each. 
The 
period 
was 
devastating 
as 
well 
for 
corporate 
and 
municipal 
bonds, 
real 
estate 
and 
commodities. 
By 
yearend, 
investors 
of 
all 
stripes 
were 
bloodied 
and 
confused, 
much 
as 
if 
they 
were 
small 
birds 
that 
had 
strayed 
into 
a 
badminton 
game. 


As 
the 
year 
progressed, 
a 
series 
of 
lifethreatening 
problems 
within 
many 
of 
the 
world's 
great 
financial 
institutions 
was 
unveiled. 
This 
led 
to 
a 
dysfunctional 
credit 
market 
that 
in 
important 
respects 
soon 
turned 
nonfunctional. 
The 
watchword 
throughout 
the 
country 
became 
the 
creed 
I 
saw 
on 
restaurant 
walls 
when 
I 
was 
young: 
"In 
God 
we 
trust; 
all 
others 
pay 
cash." 


By 
the 
fourth 
quarter, 
the 
credit 
crisis, 
coupled 
with 
tumbling 
home 
and 
stock 
prices, 
had 
produced 
a 
paralyzing 
fear 
that 
engulfed 
the 
country. 
A 
freefall 
in 
business 
activity 
ensued, 
accelerating 
at 
a 
pace 
that 
I 
have 
never 
before 
witnessed. 
The 
U.S. 
- 
and 
much 
of 
the 
world 
- 
became 
trapped 
in 
a 
vicious 
negativefeedback 
cycle. 
Fear 
led 
to 
business 
contraction, 
and 
that 
in 
turn 
led 
to 
even 
greater 
fear. 


This 
debilitating 
spiral 
has 
spurred 
our 
government 
to 
take 
massive 
action. 
In 
poker 
terms, 
the 
Treasury 
and 
the 
Fed 
have 
gone 
"all 
in." 
Economic 
medicine 
that 
was 
previously 
meted 
out 
by 
the 
cupful 
has 
recently 
been 
dispensed 
by 
the 
barrel. 
These 
onceunthinkable 
dosages 
will 
almost 
certainly 
bring 
on 
unwelcome 
aftereffects. 
Their 
precise 
nature 
is 
anyone's 
guess, 
though 
one 
likely 
consequence 
is 
an 
onslaught 
of 
inflation. 
Moreover, 
major 
industries 
have 
become 
dependent 
on 
Federal 
assistance, 
and 
they 
will 
be 
followed 
by 
cities 
and 
states 
bearing 
mindboggling 
requests. 
Weaning 
these 
entities 
from 
the 
public 
teat 
will 
be 
a 
political 
challenge. 
They 
won't 
leave 
willingly. 


Whatever 
the 
downsides 
may 
be, 
strong 
and 
immediate 
action 
by 
government 
was 
essential 
last 
year 
if 
the 
financial 
system 
was 
to 
avoid 
a 
total 
breakdown. 
Had 
one 
occurred, 
the 
consequences 
for 
every 
area 
of 
our 
economy 
would 
have 
been 
cataclysmic. 
Like 
it 
or 
not, 
the 
inhabitants 
of 
Wall 
Street, 
Main 
Street 
and 
the 
various 
Side 
Streets 
of 
America 
were 
all 
in 
the 
same 
boat. 


Amid 
this 
bad 
news, 
however, 
never 
forget 
that 
our 
country 
has 
faced 
far 
worse 
travails 
in 
the 
past. 
In 
the 
20th 
Century 
alone, 
we 
dealt 
with 
two 
great 
wars 
(one 
of 
which 
we 
initially 
appeared 
to 
be 
losing); 
a 
dozen 
or 
so 
panics 
and 
recessions; 
virulent 
inflation 
that 
led 
to 
a 
211.2% 
prime 
rate 
in 
1980; 
and 
the 
Great 
Depression 
of 
the 
1930s, 
when 
unemployment 
ranged 
between 
15% 
and 
25% 
for 
many 
years. 
America 
has 
had 
no 
shortage 
of 
challenges. 


Without 
fail, 
however, 
we've 
overcome 
them. 
In 
the 
face 
of 
those 
obstacles 
- 
and 
many 
others 
- 
the 
real 
standard 
of 
living 
for 
Americans 
improved 
nearly 
sevenfold 
during 
the 
1900s, 
while 
the 
Dow 
Jones 
Industrials 
rose 
from 
66 
to 
11,497. 
Compare 
the 
record 
of 
this 
period 
with 
the 
dozens 
of 
centuries 
during 
which 
humans 
secured 
only 
tiny 
gains, 
if 
any, 
in 
how 
they 
lived. 
Though 
the 
path 
has 
not 
been 
smooth, 
our 
economic 
system 
has 
worked 
extraordinarily 
well 
over 
time. 
It 
has 
unleashed 
human 
potential 
as 
no 
other 
system 
has, 
and 
it 
will 
continue 
to 
do 
so. 
America's 
best 
days 
lie 
ahead. 


All 
pershare 
figures 
used 
in 
this 
report 
apply 
to 
Berkshire's 
A 
shares. 
Figures 
for 
the 
B 
shares 
are 
1/30th 
of 
those 
shown 
for 
A. 



Take.a.look.again.at.the.44year.table.on.page.2..In.75%.of.those.years,.the.S&P.stocks.recorded.a.
gain..I.would.guess.that.a.roughly.similar.percentage.of.years.will.be.positive.in.the.next.44..But.neither.Charlie.
Munger,.my.partner.in.running.Berkshire,.nor.I.can.predict.the.winning.and.losing.years.in.advance..(In.our.
usual.opinionated.view,.we.don't.think.anyone.else.can.either.).We're.certain,.for.example,.that.the.economy.will.
be.in.shambles.throughout.2009.-.and,.for.that.matter,.probably.well.beyond.-.but.that.conclusion.does.not.tell.
us.whether.the.stock.market.will.rise.or.fall..

In.good.years.and.bad,.Charlie.and.I.simply.focus.on.four.goals:.

(1).maintaining.Berkshire's.Gibraltarlike.financial.position,.which.features.huge.amounts.of.
excess.liquidity,.nearterm.obligations.that.are.modest,.and.dozens.of.sources.of.earnings.
and.cash;.
(2).widening.the."moats".around.our.operating.businesses.that.give.them.durable.competitive.
advantages;.
(3).acquiring.and.developing.new.and.varied.streams.of.earnings;.
(4).expanding.and.nurturing.the.cadre.of.outstanding.operating.managers.who,.over.the.years,.
have.delivered.Berkshire.exceptional.results..
Berkshire 
in 
2008 


Most.of.the.Berkshire.businesses.whose.results.are.significantly.affected.by.the.economy.earned.below.
their.potential.last.year,.and.that.will.be.true.in.2009.as.well..Our.retailers.were.hit.particularly.hard,.as.were.our.
operations.tied.to.residential.construction..In.aggregate,.however,.our.manufacturing,.service.and.retail.
businesses.earned.substantial.sums.and.most.of.them.-.particularly.the.larger.ones.-.continue.to.strengthen.their.
competitive.positions..Moreover,.we.are.fortunate.that.Berkshire's.two.most.important.businesses.-.our.
insurance.and.utility.groups.-.produce.earnings.that.are.not.correlated.to.those.of.the.general.economy..Both.
businesses.delivered.outstanding.results.in.2008.and.have.excellent.prospects..

As.predicted.in.last.year's.report,.the.exceptional.underwriting.profits.that.our.insurance.businesses.
realized.in.2007.were.not.repeated.in.2008..Nevertheless,.the.insurance.group.delivered.an.underwriting.gain.for.
the.sixth.consecutive.year..This.means.that.our.$58.5.billion.of.insurance."float".-.money.that.doesn't.belong.to.
us.but.that.we.hold.and.invest.for.our.own.benefit.-.cost.us.less.than.zero..In.fact,.we.were.paid 
$2.8.billion.to.
hold.our.float.during.2008..Charlie.and.I.find.this.enjoyable..

Over.time,.most.insurers.experience.a.substantial.underwriting.loss,.which.makes.their.economics.far.
different.from.ours..Of.course,.we.too.will.experience.underwriting.losses.in.some.years..But.we.have.the.best.
group.of.managers.in.the.insurance.business,.and.in.most.cases.they.oversee.entrenched.and.valuable.franchises..
Considering.these.strengths,.I.believe.that.we.will.earn.an.underwriting.profit.over.the.years.and.that.our.float.
will.therefore.cost.us.nothing..Our.insurance.operation,.the.core.business.of.Berkshire,.is.an.economic.
powerhouse..

Charlie.and.I.are.equally.enthusiastic.about.our.utility.business,.which.had.record.earnings.last.year.
and.is.poised.for.future.gains..Dave.Sokol.and.Greg.Abel,.the.managers.of.this.operation,.have.achieved.results.
unmatched.elsewhere.in.the.utility.industry..I.love.it.when.they.come.up.with.new.projects.because.in.this.
capitalintensive.business.these.ventures.are.often.large..Such.projects.offer.Berkshire.the.opportunity.to.put.out.
substantial.sums.at.decent.returns..

4.


Things.also.went.well.on.the.capitalallocation.front.last.year..Berkshire.is.always.a.buyer.of.both.
businesses.and.securities,.and.the.disarray.in.markets.gave.us.a.tailwind.in.our.purchases..When.investing,.
pessimism.is.your.friend,.euphoria.the.enemy..

In.our.insurance.portfolios,.we.made.three.large.investments.on.terms.that.would.be.unavailable.in.
normal.markets..These.should.add.about.$11.2.billion.pretax.to.Berkshire's.annual.earnings.and.offer.
possibilities.for.capital.gains.as.well..We.also.closed.on.our.Marmon.acquisition.(we.own.64%.of.the.company.
now.and.will.purchase.its.remaining.stock.over.the.next.six.years)..Additionally,.certain.of.our.subsidiaries.made.
"tuckin".acquisitions.that.will.strengthen.their.competitive.positions.and.earnings..

That's.the.good.news..But.there's.another.less.pleasant.reality:.During.2008.I.did.some.dumb.things.in.
investments..I.made.at.least.one.major.mistake.of.commission.and.several.lesser.ones.that.also.hurt..I.will.tell.
you.more.about.these.later..Furthermore,.I.made.some.errors.of.omission,.sucking.my.thumb.when.new.facts.
came.in.that.should.have.caused.me.to.reexamine.my.thinking.and.promptly.take.action..

Additionally,.the.market.value.of.the.bonds.and.stocks.that.we.continue.to.hold.suffered.a.significant.
decline.along.with.the.general.market..This.does.not.bother.Charlie.and.me..Indeed,.we.enjoy.such.price.declines.
if.we.have.funds.available.to.increase.our.positions..Long.ago,.Ben.Graham.taught.me.that."Price.is.what.you.
pay;.value.is.what.you.get.".Whether.we're.talking.about.socks.or.stocks,.I.like.buying.quality.merchandise.
when.it.is.marked.down..

Yardsticks 


Berkshire.has.two.major.areas.of.value..The.first.is.our.investments:.stocks,.bonds.and.cash.
equivalents..At.yearend.those.totaled.$122.billion.(not.counting.the.investments.held.by.our.finance.and.utility.
operations,.which.we.assign.to.our.second.bucket.of.value)..About.$58.5.billion.of.that.total.is.funded.by.our.
insurance.float..

Berkshire's.second.component.of.value.is.earnings.that.come.from.sources.other.than.investments.and.
insurance..These.earnings.are.delivered.by.our.67.noninsurance.companies,.itemized.on.page.96..We.exclude.
our.insurance.earnings.from.this.calculation.because.the.value.of.our.insurance.operation.comes.from.the.
investable.funds.it.generates,.and.we.have.already.included.this.factor.in.our.first.bucket..

In.2008,.our.investments.fell.from.$90,343.per.share.of.Berkshire.(after.minority.interest).to.$77,793,.a.
decrease.that.was.caused.by.a.decline.in.market.prices,.not.by.net.sales.of.stocks.or.bonds..Our.second.segment.
of.value.fell.from.pretax.earnings.of.$4,093.per.Berkshire.share.to.$3,921.(again.after.minority.interest)..

Both.of.these.performances.are.unsatisfactory..Over.time,.we.need.to.make.decent.gains.in.each.area.if.
we.are.to.increase.Berkshire's.intrinsic.value.at.an.acceptable.rate..Going.forward,.however,.our.focus.will.be.on.
the.earnings.segment,.just.as.it.has.been.for.several.decades..We.like.buying.underpriced.securities,.but.we.like.
buying.fairlypriced.operating.businesses.even.more..

Now,.let's.take.a.look.at.the.four.major.operating.sectors.of.Berkshire..Each.of.these.has.vastly.
different.balance.sheet.and.income.account.characteristics..Therefore,.lumping.them.together,.as.is.done.in.
standard.financial.statements,.impedes.analysis..So.we'll.present.them.as.four.separate.businesses,.which.is.how.
Charlie.and.I.view.them..

5.


Regulated 
Utility 
Business 


Berkshire.has.an.87.4%.(diluted).interest.in.MidAmerican.Energy.Holdings,.which.owns.a.wide.
variety.of.utility.operations..The.largest.of.these.are.(1).Yorkshire.Electricity.and.Northern.Electric,.whose.

3.8.million.end.users.make.it.the.U.K.'s.third.largest.distributor.of.electricity;.(2).MidAmerican.Energy,.which.
serves.723,000.electric.customers,.primarily.in.Iowa;.(3).Pacific.Power.and.Rocky.Mountain.Power,.serving.
about.1.7.million.electric.customers.in.six.western.states;.and.(4).Kern.River.and.Northern.Natural.pipelines,.
which.carry.about.9%.of.the.natural.gas.consumed.in.the.U.S..
Our.partners.in.ownership.of.MidAmerican.are.its.two.terrific.managers,.Dave.Sokol.and.Greg.Abel,.
and.my.longtime.friend,.Walter.Scott..It's.unimportant.how.many.votes.each.party.has;.we.make.major.moves.
only.when.we.are.unanimous.in.thinking.them.wise..Nine.years.of.working.with.Dave,.Greg.and.Walter.have.
reinforced.my.original.belief:.Berkshire.couldn't.have.better.partners..

Somewhat.incongruously,.MidAmerican.also.owns.the.second.largest.real.estate.brokerage.firm.in.the.
U.S.,.HomeServices.of.America..This.company.operates.through.21.locallybranded.firms.that.have.16,000.
agents..Last.year.was.a.terrible.year.for.home.sales,.and.2009.looks.no.better..We.will.continue,.however,.to.
acquire.quality.brokerage.operations.when.they.are.available.at.sensible.prices..

Here.are.some.key.figures.on.MidAmerican's.operations:.



MidAmerican's.record.in.operating.its.regulated.electric.utilities.and.natural.gas.pipelines.is.truly.
outstanding..Here's.some.backup.for.that.claim..

Our.two.pipelines,.Kern.River.and.Northern.Natural,.were.both.acquired.in.2002..A.firm.called.Mastio.
regularly.ranks.pipelines.for.customer.satisfaction..Among.the.44.rated,.Kern.River.came.in.9th.when.we.
purchased.it.and.Northern.Natural.ranked.39th..There.was.work.to.do..

In.Mastio's.2009.report,.Kern.River.ranked.1st.and.Northern.Natural.3rd..Charlie.and.I.couldn't.be.more.
proud.of.this.performance..It.came.about.because.hundreds.of.people.at.each.operation.committed.themselves.to.
a.new.culture.and.then.delivered.on.their.commitment..

Achievements.at.our.electric.utilities.have.been.equally.impressive..In.1995,.MidAmerican.became.the.
major.provider.of.electricity.in.Iowa..By.judicious.planning.and.a.zeal.for.efficiency,.the.company.has.kept.
electric.prices.unchanged.since.our.purchase.and.has.promised.to.hold.them.steady.through.2013..

6.


MidAmerican.has.maintained.this.extraordinary.price.stability.while.making.Iowa.number.one.among.
all.states.in.the.percentage.of.its.generation.capacity.that.comes.from.wind..Since.our.purchase,.MidAmerican's.
windbased.facilities.have.grown.from.zero.to.almost.20%.of.total.capacity..

Similarly,.when.we.purchased.PacifiCorp.in.2006,.we.moved.aggressively.to.expand.wind.generation..
Wind.capacity.was.then.33.megawatts..It's.now.794,.with.more.coming..(Arriving.at.PacifiCorp,.we.found.
"wind".of.a.different.sort:.The.company.had.98.committees.that.met.frequently..Now.there.are.28..Meanwhile,.
we.generate.and.deliver.considerably.more.electricity,.doing.so.with.2%.fewer.employees.).

In.2008.alone,.MidAmerican.spent.$1.8.billion.on.wind.generation.at.our.two.operations,.and.today.the.
company.is.number.one.in.the.nation.among.regulated.utilities.in.ownership.of.wind.capacity..By.the.way,.
compare.that.$1.8.billion.to.the.$1.1.billion.of.pretax.earnings.of.PacifiCorp.(shown.in.the.table.as."Western").
and.Iowa..In.our.utility.business,.we.spend.all.we.earn,.and.then.some,.in.order.to.fulfill.the.needs.of.our.service.
areas..Indeed,.MidAmerican.has.not.paid.a.dividend.since.Berkshire.bought.into.the.company.in.early.2000..Its.
earnings.have.instead.been.reinvested.to.develop.the.utility.systems.our.customers.require.and.deserve..In.
exchange,.we.have.been.allowed.to.earn.a.fair.return.on.the.huge.sums.we.have.invested..It's.a.great.partnership.
for.all.concerned..



Our.longavowed.goal.is.to.be.the."buyer.of.choice".for.businesses.-.particularly.those.built.and.owned.
by.families..The.way.to.achieve.this.goal.is.to.deserve.it..That.means.we.must.keep.our.promises;.avoid.
leveraging.up.acquired.businesses;.grant.unusual.autonomy.to.our.managers;.and.hold.the.purchased.companies.
through.thick.and.thin.(though.we.prefer.thick.and.thicker)..

Our.record.matches.our.rhetoric..Most.buyers.competing.against.us,.however,.follow.a.different.path..
For.them,.acquisitions.are."merchandise.".Before.the.ink.dries.on.their.purchase.contracts,.these.operators.are.
contemplating."exit.strategies.".We.have.a.decided.advantage,.therefore,.when.we.encounter.sellers.who.truly.
care.about.the.future.of.their.businesses..

Some.years.back.our.competitors.were.known.as."leveragedbuyout.operators.".But.LBO.became.a.
bad.name..So.in.Orwellian.fashion,.the.buyout.firms.decided.to.change.their.moniker..What.they.did.not.change,.
though,.were.the.essential.ingredients.of.their.previous.operations,.including.their.cherished.fee.structures.and.
love.of.leverage..

Their.new.label.became."private.equity,".a.name.that.turns.the.facts.upsidedown:.A.purchase.of.a.
business.by.these.firms.almost.invariably.results.in.dramatic.reductions 
in.the.equity.portion.of.the.acquiree's.
capital.structure.compared.to.that.previously.existing..A.number.of.these.acquirees,.purchased.only.two.to.three.
years.ago,.are.now.in.mortal.danger.because.of.the.debt.piled.on.them.by.their.privateequity.buyers..Much.of.
the.bank.debt.is.selling.below.70?.on.the.dollar,.and.the.public.debt.has.taken.a.far.greater.beating..The.private
equity.firms,.it.should.be.noted,.are.not.rushing.in.to.inject.the.equity.their.wards.now.desperately.need..Instead,.
they're.keeping.their.remaining.funds.very 
private..

In.the.regulated.utility.field.there.are.no.large.familyowned.businesses..Here,.Berkshire.hopes.to.be.
the."buyer.of.choice".of.regulators..It.is.they,.rather.than.selling.shareholders,.who.judge.the.fitness.of.
purchasers.when.transactions.are.proposed..

There.is.no.hiding.your.history.when.you.stand.before.these.regulators..They.can.-.and.do.-.call.their.
counterparts.in.other.states.where.you.operate.and.ask.how.you.have.behaved.in.respect.to.all.aspects.of.the.
business,.including.a.willingness.to.commit.adequate.equity.capital..

7.


When.MidAmerican.proposed.its.purchase.of.PacifiCorp.in.2005,.regulators.in.the.six.new.states.we.
would.be.serving.immediately.checked.our.record.in.Iowa..They.also.carefully.evaluated.our.financing.plans.and.
capabilities..We.passed.this.examination,.just.as.we.expect.to.pass.future.ones..

There.are.two.reasons.for.our.confidence..First,.Dave.Sokol.and.Greg.Abel.are.going.to.run.any.
businesses.with.which.they.are.associated.in.a.firstclass.manner..They.don't.know.of.any.other.way.to.operate..
Beyond.that.is.the.fact.that.we.hope.to.buy.more.regulated.utilities.in.the.future.-.and.we.know.that.our.business.
behavior.in.jurisdictions.where.we.are.operating.today.will.determine.how.we.are.welcomed.by.new.jurisdictions.
tomorrow..

Insurance 


Our.insurance.group.has.propelled.Berkshire's.growth.since.we.first.entered.the.business.in.1967..This.
happy.result.has.not.been.due.to.general.prosperity.in.the.industry..During.the.25.years.ending.in.2007,.return.on.
net.worth.for.insurers.averaged.8.5%.versus.14.0%.for.the.Fortune.500..Clearly.our.insurance.CEOs.have.not.
had.the.wind.at.their.back..Yet.these.managers.have.excelled.to.a.degree.Charlie.and.I.never.dreamed.possible.in.
the.early.days..Why.do.I.love.them?.Let.me.count.the.ways..

At.GEICO,.Tony.Nicely.-.now.in.his.48th.year.at.the.company.after.joining.it.when.he.was.18.-.
continues.to.gobble.up.market.share.while.maintaining.disciplined.underwriting..When.Tony.became.CEO.in.
1993,.GEICO.had.2.0%.of.the.auto.insurance.market,.a.level.at.which.the.company.had.long.been.stuck..Now.we.
have.a.7.7%.share,.up.from.7.2%.in.2007..

The.combination.of.new.business.gains.and.an.improvement.in.the.renewal.rate.on.existing.business.
has.moved.GEICO.into.the.number.three.position.among.auto.insurers..In.1995,.when.Berkshire.purchased.
control,.GEICO.was.number.seven..Now.we.trail.only.State.Farm.and.Allstate..

GEICO.grows.because.it.saves.money.for.motorists..No.one.likes 
to.buy.auto.insurance..But.virtually.
everyone.likes.to.drive..So,.sensibly,.drivers.look.for.the.lowestcost.insurance.consistent.with.firstclass.service..
Efficiency.is.the.key.to.low.cost,.and.efficiency.is.Tony's.specialty..Five.years.ago.the.number.of.policies.per.
employee.was.299..In.2008,.the.number.was.439,.a.huge.increase.in.productivity..

As.we.view.GEICO's.current.opportunities,.Tony.and.I.feel.like.two.hungry.mosquitoes.in.a.nudist.
camp..Juicy.targets.are.everywhere..First,.and.most.important,.our.new.business.in.auto.insurance.is.now.
exploding..Americans.are.focused.on.saving.money.as.never.before,.and.they.are.flocking.to.GEICO..In.January.
2009,.we.set.a.monthly.record.-.by.a.wide.margin.-.for.growth.in.policyholders..That.record.will.last.exactly.28.
days:.As.we.go.to.press,.it's.clear.February's.gain.will.be.even.better..

Beyond.this,.we.are.gaining.ground.in.allied.lines..Last.year,.our.motorcycle.policies.increased.by.
23.4%,.which.raised.our.market.share.from.about.6%.to.more.than.7%..Our.RV.and.ATV.businesses.are.also.
growing.rapidly,.albeit.from.a.small.base..And,.finally,.we.recently.began.insuring.commercial.autos,.a.big.
market.that.offers.real.promise..

GEICO.is.now.saving.money.for.millions.of.Americans..Go.to.GEICO.com.or.call.18008477536.
and.see.if.we.can.save.you.money.as.well..

General.Re,.our.large.international.reinsurer,.also.had.an.outstanding.year.in.2008..Some.time.back,.
the.company.had.serious.problems.(which.I.totally.failed.to.detect.when.we.purchased.it.in.late.1998)..By.2001,.
when.Joe.Brandon.took.over.as.CEO,.assisted.by.his.partner,.Tad.Montross,.General.Re's.culture.had.further.
deteriorated,.exhibiting.a.loss.of.discipline.in.underwriting,.reserving.and.expenses..After.Joe.and.Tad.took.
charge,.these.problems.were.decisively.and.successfully.addressed..Today.General.Re.has.regained.its.luster..
Last.spring.Joe.stepped.down,.and.Tad.became.CEO..Charlie.and.I.are.grateful.to.Joe.for.righting.the.ship.and.
are.certain.that,.with.Tad,.General.Re's.future.is.in.the.best.of.hands..

8.


Reinsurance.is.a.business.of.longterm.promises,.sometimes.extending.for.fifty.years.or.more..This.
past.year.has.retaught.clients.a.crucial.principle:.A.promise.is.no.better.than.the.person.or.institution.making.it..
That's.where.General.Re.excels:.It.is.the.only 
reinsurer.that.is.backed.by.an.AAA.corporation..Ben.Franklin.once.
said,."It's.difficult.for.an.empty.sack.to.stand.upright.".That's.no.worry.for.General.Re.clients..

Our.third.major.insurance.operation.is.Ajit.Jain's.reinsurance.division,.headquartered.in.Stamford.and.
staffed.by.only.31.employees..This.may.be.one.of.the.most.remarkable.businesses.in.the.world,.hard.to.
characterize.but.easy.to.admire..

From.year.to.year,.Ajit's.business.is.never.the.same..It.features.very.large.transactions,.incredible.
speed.of.execution.and.a.willingness.to.quote.on.policies.that.leave.others.scratching.their.heads..When.there.is.a.
huge.and.unusual.risk.to.be.insured,.Ajit.is.almost.certain.to.be.called..

Ajit.came.to.Berkshire.in.1986..Very.quickly,.I.realized.that.we.had.acquired.an.extraordinary.talent..
So.I.did.the.logical.thing:.I.wrote.his.parents.in.New.Delhi.and.asked.if.they.had.another.one.like.him.at.home..
Of.course,.I.knew.the.answer.before.writing..There.isn't 
anyone.like.Ajit..

Our.smaller.insurers.are.just.as.outstanding.in.their.own.way.as.the."big.three,".regularly.delivering.
valuable.float.to.us.at.a.negative.cost..We.aggregate.their.results.below.under."Other.Primary.".For.space.
reasons,.we.don't.discuss.these.insurers.individually..But.be.assured.that.Charlie.and.I.appreciate.the.
contribution.of.each..

Here.is.the.record.for.the.four.legs.to.our.insurance.stool..The.underwriting.profits.signify.that.all.four.
provided.funds.to.Berkshire.last.year.without.cost,.just.as.they.did.in.2007..And.in.both.years.our.underwriting.
profitability.was.considerably.better.than.that.achieved.by.the.industry..Of.course,.we.ourselves.will.periodically.
have.a.terrible.year.in.insurance..But,.overall,.I.expect.us.to.average 
an.underwriting.profit..If.so,.we.will.be.
using.free.funds.of.large.size.for.the.indefinite.future..

Underwriting 
Profit 
Yearend 
Float 




Manufacturing, 
Service 
and 
Retailing 
Operations 


Our.activities.in.this.part.of.Berkshire.cover.the.waterfront..Let's.look,.though,.at.a.summary.balance.sheet.
and.earnings.statement.for.the.entire.group..


Earnings 
Statement 

This.motley.group,.which.sells.products.ranging.from.lollipops.to.motor.homes,.earned.an.impressive.
17.9%.on.average.tangible.net.worth.last.year..It's.also.noteworthy.that.these.operations.used.only.minor.
financial.leverage.in.achieving.that.return..Clearly.we.own.some.terrific.businesses..We.purchased.many.of.
them,.however,.at.large.premiums.to.net.worth.-.a.point.reflected.in.the.goodwill.item.shown.on.our.balance.
sheet.-.and.that.fact.reduces.the.earnings.on.our.average.carrying 
value.to.8.1%..

Though.the.fullyear.result.was.satisfactory,.earnings.of.many.of.the.businesses.in.this.group.hit.the.
skids.in.last.year's.fourth.quarter..Prospects.for.2009.look.worse..Nevertheless,.the.group.retains.strong.earning.
power.even.under.today's.conditions.and.will.continue.to.deliver.significant.cash.to.the.parent.company..Overall,.
these.companies.improved.their.competitive.positions.last.year,.partly.because.our.financial.strength.let.us.make.
advantageous.tuckin.acquisitions..In.contrast,.many.competitors.were.treading.water.(or.sinking)..

The.most.noteworthy.of.these.acquisitions.was.Iscar's.lateNovember.purchase.of.Tungaloy,.a.leading.
Japanese.producer.of.small.tools..Charlie.and.I.continue.to.look.with.astonishment.-.and.appreciation!.-.at.the.
accomplishments.of.Iscar's.management..To.secure.one.manager.like.Eitan.Wertheimer,.Jacob.Harpaz.or.Danny.
Goldman.when.we.acquire.a.company.is.a.blessing..Getting.three.is.like.winning.the.Triple.Crown..Iscar's.
growth.since.our.purchase.has.exceeded.our.expectations.-.which.were.high.-.and.the.addition.of.Tungaloy.will.
move.performance.to.the.next.level..

MiTek,.Benjamin.Moore,.Acme.Brick,.Forest.River,.Marmon.and.CTB.also.made.one.or.more.
acquisitions.during.the.year..CTB,.which.operates.worldwide.in.the.agriculture.equipment.field,.has.now.picked.
up.six.small.firms.since.we.purchased.it.in.2002..At.that.time,.we.paid.$140.million.for.the.company..Last.year.
its.pretax.earnings.were.$89.million..Vic.Mancinelli,.its.CEO,.followed.Berkshirelike.operating.principles.long.
before.our.arrival..He.focuses.on.blocking.and.tackling,.day.by.day.doing.the.little.things.right.and.never.getting.
off.course..Ten.years.from.now,.Vic.will.be.running.a.much.larger.operation.and,.more.important,.will.be.
earning.excellent.returns.on.invested.capital..

Finance 
and 
Financial 
Products 


I.will.write.here.at.some.length.about.the.mortgage.operation.of.Clayton.Homes.and.skip.any.financial.
commentary,.which.is.summarized.in.the.table.at.the.end.of.this.section..I.do.this.because.Clayton's.recent.
experience.may.be.useful.in.the.publicpolicy.debate.about.housing.and.mortgages..But.first.a.little.background..

Clayton.is.the.largest.company.in.the.manufactured.home.industry,.delivering.27,499.units.last.year..
This.came.to.about.34%.of.the.industry's.81,889.total..Our.share.will.likely.grow.in.2009,.partly.because.much.
of.the.rest.of.the.industry.is.in.acute.distress..Industrywide,.units.sold.have.steadily.declined.since.they.hit.a.peak.
of.372,843.in.1998..

10.


At.that.time,.much.of.the.industry.employed.sales.practices.that.were.atrocious..Writing.about.the.
period.somewhat.later,.I.described.it.as.involving."borrowers.who.shouldn't.have.borrowed.being.financed.by.
lenders.who.shouldn't.have.lent.".

To.begin.with,.the.need.for.meaningful.down.payments.was.frequently.ignored..Sometimes.fakery.was.
involved..("That.certainly.looks.like.a.$2,000.cat.to.me".says.the.salesman.who.will.receive.a.$3,000.
commission.if.the.loan.goes.through.).Moreover,.impossibletomeet.monthly.payments.were.being.agreed.to.by.
borrowers.who.signed.up.because.they.had.nothing.to.lose..The.resulting.mortgages.were.usually.packaged.
("securitized").and.sold.by.Wall.Street.firms.to.unsuspecting.investors..This.chain.of.folly.had.to.end.badly,.and.
it.did..

Clayton,.it.should.be.emphasized,.followed.far.more.sensible.practices.in.its.own.lending.throughout.
that.time..Indeed,.no.purchaser.of.the.mortgages.it.originated.and.then.securitized.has.ever.lost.a.dime.of.
principal.or.interest..But.Clayton.was.the.exception;.industry.losses.were.staggering..And.the.hangover.continues.
to.this.day..

This.19972000.fiasco.should.have.served.as.a.canaryinthecoalmine.warning.for.the.farlarger.
conventional.housing.market..But.investors,.government.and.rating.agencies.learned.exactly.nothing.from.the.
manufacturedhome.debacle..Instead,.in.an.eerie.rerun.of.that.disaster,.the.same.mistakes.were.repeated.with.
conventional.homes.in.the.200407.period:.Lenders.happily.made.loans.that.borrowers.couldn't.repay.out.of.their.
incomes,.and.borrowers.just.as.happily.signed.up.to.meet.those.payments..Both.parties.counted.on."houseprice.
appreciation".to.make.this.otherwise.impossible.arrangement.work..It.was.Scarlett.O'Hara.all.over.again:."I'll.
think.about.it.tomorrow.".The.consequences.of.this.behavior.are.now.reverberating.through.every.corner.of.our.
economy..

Clayton's.198,888.borrowers,.however,.have.continued.to.pay.normally.throughout.the.housing.crash,.
handing.us.no.unexpected.losses..This.is.not 
because.these.borrowers.are.unusually.creditworthy,.a.point.proved.
by.FICO.scores.(a.standard.measure.of.credit.risk)..Their.median.FICO.score.is.644,.compared.to.a.national.
median.of.723,.and.about.35%.are.below.620,.the.segment.usually.designated."subprime.".Many.disastrous.
pools.of.mortgages.on.conventional.homes.are.populated.by.borrowers.with.far.better.credit,.as.measured.by.
FICO.scores..

Yet.at.yearend,.our.delinquency.rate.on.loans.we.have.originated.was.3.6%,.up.only.modestly.from.
2.9%.in.2006.and.2.9%.in.2004..(In.addition.to.our.originated.loans,.we've.also.bought.bulk.portfolios.of.various.
types.from.other.financial.institutions.).Clayton's.foreclosures.during.2008.were.3.0%.of.originated.loans.
compared.to.3.8%.in.2006.and.5.3%.in.2004..

Why.are.our.borrowers.-.characteristically.people.with.modest.incomes.and.farfromgreat.credit.
scores.-.performing.so.well?.The.answer.is.elementary,.going.right.back.to.Lending.101..Our.borrowers.simply.
looked.at.how.fullbore.mortgage.payments.would.compare.with.their.actual.-.not.hopedfor.-.income.and.then.
decided.whether.they.could.live.with.that.commitment..Simply.put,.they.took.out.a.mortgage.with.the.intention.
of.paying.it.off,.whatever.the.course.of.home.prices..

Just.as.important.is.what.our.borrowers.did.not 
do..They.did.not.count.on.making.their.loan.payments.
by.means.of.refinancing..They.did.not.sign.up.for."teaser".rates.that.upon.reset.were.outsized.relative.to.their.
income..And.they.did.not.assume.that.they.could.always.sell.their.home.at.a.profit.if.their.mortgage.payments.
became.onerous..Jimmy.Stewart.would.have.loved.these.folks..

Of.course,.a.number.of.our.borrowers.will.run.into.trouble..They.generally.have.no.more.than.minor.
savings.to.tide.them.over.if.adversity.hits..The.major.cause.of.delinquency.or.foreclosure.is.the.loss.of.a.job,.but.
death,.divorce.and.medical.expenses.all.cause.problems..If.unemployment.rates.rise.-.as.they.surely.will.in.
2009.-.more.of.Clayton's.borrowers.will.have.troubles,.and.we.will.have.larger,.though.still.manageable,.losses..
But.our.problems.will.not.be.driven.to.any.extent.by.the.trend.of.home.prices..

11.



Commentary.about.the.current.housing.crisis.often.ignores.the.crucial.fact.that.most.foreclosures.do.
not 
occur.because.a.house.is.worth.less.than.its.mortgage.(socalled."upsidedown".loans)..Rather,.foreclosures.
take.place.because.borrowers.can't.pay.the.monthly.payment.that.they.agreed.to.pay..Homeowners.who.have.
made.a.meaningful.downpayment.-.derived.from.savings.and.not.from.other.borrowing.-.seldom.walk.away.
from.a.primary.residence.simply.because.its.value.today.is.less.than.the.mortgage..Instead,.they.walk.when.they.
can't.make.the.monthly.payments..

Home.ownership.is.a.wonderful.thing..My.family.and.I.have.enjoyed.my.present.home.for.50.years,.
with.more.to.come..But.enjoyment.and.utility.should.be.the.primary.motives.for.purchase,.not.profit.or.refi.
possibilities..And.the.home.purchased.ought.to.fit.the.income.of.the.purchaser..

The.present.housing.debacle.should.teach.home.buyers,.lenders,.brokers.and.government.some.simple.
lessons.that.will.ensure.stability.in.the.future..Home.purchases.should.involve.an.honesttoGod.down.payment.
of.at.least.10%.and.monthly.payments.that.can.be.comfortably.handled.by.the.borrower's.income..That.income.
should.be.carefully.verified..

Putting.people.into.homes,.though.a.desirable.goal,.shouldn't.be.our.country's.primary.objective..
Keeping.them.in.their.homes.should.be.the.ambition..



Clayton's.lending.operation,.though.not.damaged.by.the.performance.of.its.borrowers,.is.nevertheless.
threatened.by.an.element.of.the.credit.crisis..Funders.that.have.access.to.any.sort.of.government.guarantee.-.
banks.with.FDICinsured.deposits,.large.entities.with.commercial.paper.now.backed.by.the.Federal.Reserve,.and.
others.who.are.using.imaginative.methods.(or.lobbying.skills).to.come.under.the.government's.umbrella.-.have.
money.costs.that.are.minimal..Conversely,.highlyrated.companies,.such.as.Berkshire,.are.experiencing.
borrowing.costs.that,.in.relation.to.Treasury.rates,.are.at.record.levels..Moreover,.funds.are.abundant.for.the.
governmentguaranteed.borrower.but.often.scarce.for.others,.no.matter.how.creditworthy.they.may.be..

This.unprecedented."spread".in.the.cost.of.money.makes.it.unprofitable.for.any.lender.who.doesn't.
enjoy.governmentguaranteed.funds.to.go.up.against.those.with.a.favored.status..Government.is.determining.the.
"haves".and."havenots.".That.is.why.companies.are.rushing.to.convert.to.bank.holding.companies,.not.a.course.
feasible.for.Berkshire..

Though.Berkshire's.credit.is.pristine.-.we.are.one.of.only.seven.AAA.corporations.in.the.country.-.our.
cost.of.borrowing.is.now.far 
higher.than.competitors.with.shaky.balance.sheets.but.government.backing..At.the.
moment,.it.is.much.better.to.be.a.financial.cripple.with.a.government.guarantee.than.a.Gibraltar.without.one..

Today's.extreme.conditions.may.soon.end..At.worst,.we.believe.we.will.find.at.least.a.partial.solution.
that.will.allow.us.to.continue.much.of.Clayton's.lending..Clayton's.earnings,.however,.will.surely.suffer.if.we.
are.forced.to.compete.for.long.against.governmentfavored.lenders..

PreTax 
Earnings 

TaxExempt 
Bond 
Insurance 


Early.in.2008,.we.activated.Berkshire.Hathaway.Assurance.Company.("BHAC").as.an.insurer.of.the.
taxexempt.bonds.issued.by.states,.cities.and.other.local.entities..BHAC.insures.these.securities.for.issuers.both.
at.the.time.their.bonds.are.sold.to.the.public.(primary.transactions).and.later,.when.the.bonds.are.already.owned.
by.investors.(secondary.transactions)..

By.yearend.2007,.the.half.dozen.or.so.companies.that.had.been.the.major.players.in.this.business.had.
all.fallen.into.big.trouble..The.cause.of.their.problems.was.captured.long.ago.by.Mae.West:."I.was.Snow.White,.
but.I.drifted.".

The.monolines.(as.the.bond.insurers.are.called).initially.insured.only.taxexempt.bonds.that.were.
lowrisk..But.over.the.years.competition.for.this.business.intensified,.and.rates.fell..Faced.with.the.prospect.of.
stagnating.or.declining.earnings,.the.monoline.managers.turned.to.everriskier.propositions..Some.of.these.
involved.the.insuring.of.residential.mortgage.obligations..When.housing.prices.plummeted,.the.monoline.
industry.quickly.became.a.basket.case..

Early.in.the.year,.Berkshire.offered.to.assume.all.of.the.insurance.issued.on.taxexempts.that.was.on.
the.books.of.the.three.largest.monolines..These.companies.were.all.in.lifethreatening.trouble.(though.they.said.
otherwise.).We.would.have.charged.a.11.2%.rate.to.take.over.the.guarantees.on.about.$822.billion.of.bonds..If.
our.offer.had.been.accepted,.we.would.have.been.required.to.pay.any.losses.suffered.by.investors.who.owned.
these.bonds.-.a.guarantee.stretching.for.40.years.in.some.cases..Ours.was.not.a.frivolous.proposal:.For.reasons.
we.will.come.to.later,.it.involved.substantial.risk.for.Berkshire..

The.monolines.summarily.rejected.our.offer,.in.some.cases.appending.an.insult.or.two..In.the.end,.
though,.the.turndowns.proved.to.be.very 
good.news.for.us,.because.it.became.apparent.that.I.had.severely.
underpriced.our.offer..

Thereafter,.we.wrote.about.$15.6.billion.of.insurance.in.the.secondary.market..And.here's.the.punch.
line:.About.77%.of.this.business.was.on.bonds.that.were.already.insured,.largely.by.the.three.aforementioned.
monolines..In.these.agreements,.we.have.to.pay.for.defaults.only 
if.the.original.insurer.is.financially.unable.to.do.
so..

We.wrote.this."secondtopay".insurance.for.rates.averaging.3.3%..That's.right;.we.have.been.paid.far.
more.for.becoming.the.second.to.pay.than.the.1.5%.we.would.have.earlier.charged.to.be.the.first.to.pay..In.one.
extreme.case,.we.actually.agreed.to.be.fourth 
to.pay,.nonetheless.receiving.about.three.times.the.1%.premium.
charged.by.the.monoline.that.remains.first 
to.pay..In.other.words,.three.other.monolines.have.to.first.go.broke.
before.we.need.to.write.a.check..

Two.of.the.three.monolines.to.which.we.made.our.initial.bulk.offer.later.raised.substantial.capital..
This,.of.course,.directly.helps.us,.since.it.makes.it.less.likely.that.we.will.have.to.pay,.at.least.in.the.near.term,.
any.claims.on.our.secondtopay.insurance.because.these.two.monolines.fail..In.addition.to.our.book.of.
secondary.business,.we.have.also.written.$3.7.billion.of.primary.business.for.a.premium.of.$96.million..In.
primary.business,.of.course,.we.are.first.to.pay.if.the.issuer.gets.in.trouble..

We.have.a.great.many.more.multiples.of.capital.behind.the.insurance.we.write.than.does.any.other.
monoline..Consequently,.our.guarantee.is.far.more.valuable.than.theirs..This.explains.why.many.sophisticated.
investors.have.bought.secondtopay.insurance.from.us.even.though.they.were.already.insured.by.another.
monoline..BHAC.has.become.not.only.the.insurer.of.preference,.but.in.many.cases.the.sole 
insurer.acceptable.to.
bondholders..

Nevertheless,.we.remain.very.cautious.about.the.business.we.write.and.regard.it.as.far.from.a.sure.
thing.that.this.insurance.will.ultimately.be.profitable.for.us..The.reason.is.simple,.though.I.have.never.seen.even.
a.passing.reference.to.it.by.any.financial.analyst,.rating.agency.or.monoline.CEO..

13.


The.rationale.behind.very.low.premium.rates.for.insuring.taxexempts.has.been.that.defaults.have.
historically.been.few..But.that.record.largely.reflects.the.experience.of.entities.that.issued.uninsured 
bonds..
Insurance.of.taxexempt.bonds.didn't.exist.before.1971,.and.even.after.that.most.bonds.remained.uninsured..

A.universe.of.taxexempts.fully.covered.by.insurance.would.be.certain.to.have.a.somewhat.different.
loss.experience.from.a.group.of.uninsured,.but.otherwise.similar.bonds,.the.only.question.being.how 
different..
To.understand.why,.let's.go.back.to.1975.when.New.York.City.was.on.the.edge.of.bankruptcy..At.the.time.its.
bonds.-.virtually.all.uninsured.-.were.heavily.held.by.the.city's.wealthier.residents.as.well.as.by.New.York.
banks.and.other.institutions..These.local.bondholders.deeply.desired.to.solve.the.city's.fiscal.problems..So.before.
long,.concessions.and.cooperation.from.a.host.of.involved.constituencies.produced.a.solution..Without.one,.it.
was.apparent.to.all.that.New.York's.citizens.and.businesses.would.have.experienced.widespread.and.severe.
financial.losses.from.their.bond.holdings..

Now,.imagine.that.all.of.the.city's.bonds.had.instead.been.insured.by.Berkshire..Would.similar.belt
tightening,.tax.increases,.labor.concessions,.etc..have.been.forthcoming?.Of.course.not..At.a.minimum,.Berkshire.
would.have.been.asked.to."share".in.the.required.sacrifices..And,.considering.our.deep.pockets,.the.required.
contribution.would.most.certainly.have.been.substantial..

Local.governments.are.going.to.face.far 
tougher.fiscal.problems.in.the.future.than.they.have.to.date..
The.pension.liabilities.I.talked.about.in.last.year's.report.will.be.a.huge.contributor.to.these.woes..Many.cities.
and.states.were.surely.horrified.when.they.inspected.the.status.of.their.funding.at.yearend.2008..The.gap.between.
assets.and.a.realistic.actuarial.valuation.of.present.liabilities.is.simply.staggering..

When.faced.with.large.revenue.shortfalls,.communities.that.have.all.of.their.bonds.insured.will.be.
more.prone.to.develop."solutions".less.favorable.to.bondholders.than.those.communities.that.have.uninsured.
bonds.held.by.local.banks.and.residents..Losses.in.the.taxexempt.arena,.when.they.come,.are.also.likely.to.be.
highly.correlated.among.issuers..If.a.few.communities.stiff.their.creditors.and.get.away.with.it,.the.chance.that.
others.will.follow.in.their.footsteps.will.grow..What.mayor.or.city.council.is.going.to.choose.pain.to.local.
citizens.in.the.form.of.major.tax.increases.over.pain.to.a.faraway.bond.insurer?.

Insuring.taxexempts,.therefore,.has.the.look.today.of.a.dangerous.business.-.one.with.similarities,.in.
fact,.to.the.insuring.of.natural.catastrophes..In.both.cases,.a.string.of.lossfree.years.can.be.followed.by.a.
devastating.experience.that.more.than.wipes.out.all.earlier.profits..We.will.try,.therefore,.to.proceed.carefully.in.
this.business,.eschewing.many.classes.of.bonds.that.other.monolines.regularly.embrace..



The.type.of.fallacy.involved.in.projecting.loss.experience.from.a.universe.of.noninsured.bonds.onto.a.
deceptivelysimilar.universe.in.which.many.bonds.are.insured.pops.up.in.other.areas.of.finance.."Backtested".
models.of.many.kinds.are.susceptible.to.this.sort.of.error..Nevertheless,.they.are.frequently.touted.in.financial.
markets.as.guides.to.future.action..(If.merely.looking.up.past.financial.data.would.tell.you.what.the.future.holds,.
the.Forbes.400.would.consist.of.librarians.).

Indeed,.the.stupefying.losses.in.mortgagerelated.securities.came.in.large.part.because.of.flawed,.
historybased.models.used.by.salesmen,.rating.agencies.and.investors..These.parties.looked.at.loss.experience.
over.periods.when.home.prices.rose.only.moderately.and.speculation.in.houses.was.negligible..They.then.made.
this.experience.a.yardstick.for.evaluating.future.losses..They.blissfully.ignored.the.fact.that.house.prices.had.
recently.skyrocketed,.loan.practices.had.deteriorated.and.many.buyers.had.opted.for.houses.they.couldn't.afford..
In.short,.universe."past".and.universe."current".had.very.different.characteristics..But.lenders,.government.and.
media.largely.failed.to.recognize.this.allimportant.fact..

14.


Investors.should.be.skeptical.of.historybased.models..Constructed.by.a.nerdysounding.priesthood.
using.esoteric.terms.such.as.beta,.gamma,.sigma.and.the.like,.these.models.tend.to.look.impressive..Too.often,.
though,.investors.forget.to.examine.the.assumptions.behind.the.symbols..Our.advice:.Beware.of.geeks.bearing.
formulas..



A.final.postscript.on.BHAC:.Who,.you.may.wonder,.runs.this.operation?.While.I.help.set.policy,.all.
of.the.heavy.lifting.is.done.by.Ajit.and.his.crew..Sure,.they.were.already.generating.$24.billion.of.float.along.
with.hundreds.of.millions.of.underwriting.profit.annually..But.how.busy.can.that.keep.a.31person.group?.
Charlie.and.I.decided.it.was.high.time.for.them.to.start.doing.a.full.day's.work..

Investments 


Because.of.accounting.rules,.we.divide.our.large.holdings.of.common.stocks.this.year.into.two.
categories..The.table.below,.presenting.the.first.category,.itemizes.investments.that.are.carried.on.our.balance.
sheet.at.market.value.and.that.had.a.yearend.value.of.more.than.$500.million..



In.addition,.we.have.holdings.in.Moody's.and.Burlington.Northern.Santa.Fe.that.we.now.carry.at.
"equity.value".-.our.cost.plus.retained.earnings.since.our.purchase,.minus.the.tax.that.would.be.paid.if.those.
earnings.were.paid.to.us.as.dividends..This.accounting.treatment.is.usually.required.when.ownership.of.an.
investee.company.reaches.20%..

We.purchased.15%.of.Moody's.some.years.ago.and.have.not.since.bought.a.share..Moody's,.though,.
has.repurchased.its.own.shares.and,.by.late.2008,.those.repurchases.reduced.its.outstanding.shares.to.the.point.
that.our.holdings.rose.above.20%..Burlington.Northern.has.also.repurchased.shares,.but.our.increase.to.20%.
primarily.occurred.because.we.continued.to.buy.this.stock..

15.


Unless.facts.or.rules.change,.you.will.see.these.holdings.reflected.in.our.balance.sheet.at."equity.
accounting".values,.whatever.their.market.prices..You.will.also.see.our.share.of.their.earnings.(less.applicable.
taxes).regularly.included.in.our.quarterly.and.annual.earnings..

I.told.you.in.an.earlier.part.of.this.report.that.last.year.I.made.a.major.mistake.of.commission.(and.
maybe.more;.this.one.sticks.out)..Without.urging.from.Charlie.or.anyone.else,.I.bought.a.large.amount.of.
ConocoPhillips.stock.when.oil.and.gas.prices.were.near.their.peak..I.in.no.way.anticipated.the.dramatic.fall.in.
energy.prices.that.occurred.in.the.last.half.of.the.year..I.still.believe.the.odds.are.good.that.oil.sells.far.higher.in.
the.future.than.the.current.$40$50.price..But.so.far.I.have.been.dead.wrong..Even.if.prices.should.rise,.
moreover,.the.terrible.timing.of.my.purchase.has.cost.Berkshire.several.billion.dollars..

I.made.some.other.alreadyrecognizable.errors.as.well..They.were.smaller,.but.unfortunately.not.that 
small..During.2008,.I.spent.$244.million.for.shares.of.two.Irish.banks.that.appeared.cheap.to.me..At.yearend.we.
wrote.these.holdings.down.to.market:.$27.million,.for.an.89%.loss..Since.then,.the.two.stocks.have.declined.
even.further..The.tennis.crowd.would.call.my.mistakes."unforced.errors.".

On.the.plus.side.last.year,.we.made.purchases.totaling.$14.5.billion.in.fixedincome.securities.issued.
by.Wrigley,.Goldman.Sachs.and.General.Electric..We.very.much.like.these.commitments,.which.carry.high.
current.yields.that,.in.themselves,.make.the.investments.more.than.satisfactory..But.in.each.of.these.three.
purchases,.we.also.acquired.a.substantial.equity.participation.as.a.bonus..To.fund.these.large.purchases,.I.had.to.
sell.portions.of.some.holdings.that.I.would.have.preferred.to.keep.(primarily.Johnson.&.Johnson,.Procter.&.
Gamble.and.ConocoPhillips)..However,.I.have.pledged.-.to.you,.the.rating.agencies.and.myself.-.to.always.run.
Berkshire.with.more.than.ample.cash..We.never.want.to.count.on.the.kindness.of.strangers.in.order.to.meet.
tomorrow's.obligations..When.forced.to.choose,.I.will.not.trade.even.a.night's.sleep.for.the.chance.of.extra.
profits..

The.investment.world.has.gone.from.underpricing.risk.to.overpricing.it..This.change.has.not.been.
minor;.the.pendulum.has.covered.an.extraordinary.arc..A.few.years.ago,.it.would.have.seemed.unthinkable.that.
yields.like.today's.could.have.been.obtained.on.goodgrade.municipal.or.corporate.bonds.even.while.riskfree.
governments.offered.nearzero.returns.on.shortterm.bonds.and.no.better.than.a.pittance.on.longterms..When.the.
financial.history.of.this.decade.is.written,.it.will.surely.speak.of.the.Internet.bubble.of.the.late.1990s.and.the.
housing.bubble.of.the.early.2000s..But.the.U.S..Treasury.bond.bubble.of.late.2008.may.be.regarded.as.almost.
equally.extraordinary..

Clinging.to.cash.equivalents.or.longterm.government.bonds.at.present.yields.is.almost.certainly.a.
terrible.policy.if.continued.for.long..Holders.of.these.instruments,.of.course,.have.felt.increasingly.comfortable.-.
in.fact,.almost.smug.-.in.following.this.policy.as.financial.turmoil.has.mounted..They.regard.their.judgment.
confirmed.when.they.hear.commentators.proclaim."cash.is.king,".even.though.that.wonderful.cash.is.earning.
close.to.nothing.and.will.surely.find.its.purchasing.power.eroded.over.time..

Approval,.though,.is.not.the.goal.of.investing..In.fact,.approval.is.often.counterproductive.because.it.
sedates.the.brain.and.makes.it.less.receptive.to.new.facts.or.a.reexamination.of.conclusions.formed.earlier..
Beware.the.investment.activity.that.produces.applause;.the.great.moves.are.usually.greeted.by.yawns..

Derivatives 


Derivatives.are.dangerous..They.have.dramatically.increased.the.leverage.and.risks.in.our.financial.
system..They.have.made.it.almost.impossible.for.investors.to.understand.and.analyze.our.largest.commercial.
banks.and.investment.banks..They.allowed.Fannie.Mae.and.Freddie.Mac.to.engage.in.massive.misstatements.of.
earnings.for.years..So.indecipherable.were.Freddie.and.Fannie.that.their.federal.regulator,.OFHEO,.whose.more.
than.100.employees.had.no.job.except.the.oversight.of.these.two.institutions,.totally.missed.their.cooking.of.the.
books..

16.


Indeed,.recent.events.demonstrate.that.certain.bigname.CEOs.(or.former.CEOs).at.major.financial.
institutions.were.simply.incapable.of.managing.a.business.with.a.huge,.complex.book.of.derivatives..Include.
Charlie.and.me.in.this.hapless.group:.When.Berkshire.purchased.General.Re.in.1998,.we.knew.we.could.not.get.
our.minds.around.its.book.of.23,218.derivatives.contracts,.made.with.884.counterparties.(many.of.which.we.had.
never.heard.of)..So.we.decided.to.close.up.shop..Though.we.were.under.no.pressure.and.were.operating.in.
benign.markets.as.we.exited,.it.took.us.five.years.and.more.than.$400.million.in.losses.to.largely.complete.the.
task..Upon.leaving,.our.feelings.about.the.business.mirrored.a.line.in.a.country.song:."I.liked.you.better.before.I.
got.to.know.you.so.well.".

Improved."transparency".-.a.favorite.remedy.of.politicians,.commentators.and.financial.regulators.for.
averting.future.train.wrecks.-.won't.cure.the.problems.that.derivatives.pose..I.know.of.no.reporting.mechanism.
that.would.come.close.to.describing.and.measuring.the.risks.in.a.huge.and.complex.portfolio.of.derivatives..
Auditors.can't.audit.these.contracts,.and.regulators.can't.regulate.them..When.I.read.the.pages.of."disclosure".in.
10Ks.of.companies.that.are.entangled.with.these.instruments,.all.I.end.up.knowing.is.that.I.don't 
know.what.is.
going.on.in.their.portfolios.(and.then.I.reach.for.some.aspirin)..

For.a.case.study.on.regulatory.effectiveness,.let's.look.harder.at.the.Freddie.and.Fannie.example..
These.giant.institutions.were.created.by.Congress,.which.retained.control.over.them,.dictating.what.they.could.
and.could.not.do..To.aid.its.oversight,.Congress.created.OFHEO.in.1992,.admonishing.it.to.make.sure.the.two.
behemoths.were.behaving.themselves..With.that.move,.Fannie.and.Freddie.became.the.most.intenselyregulated.
companies.of.which.I.am.aware,.as.measured.by.manpower.assigned.to.the.task..

On.June.15,.2003,.OFHEO.(whose.annual.reports.are.available.on.the.Internet).sent.its.2002.report.to.
Congress.-.specifically.to.its.four.bosses.in.the.Senate.and.House,.among.them.none.other.than.Messrs..Sarbanes.
and.Oxley..The.report's.127.pages.included.a.selfcongratulatory.coverline:."Celebrating.10.Years.of.
Excellence.".The.transmittal.letter.and.report.were.delivered.nine.days.after 
the.CEO.and.CFO.of.Freddie.had.
resigned.in.disgrace.and.the.COO.had.been.fired..No.mention.of.their.departures.was.made.in.the.letter,.even.
while.the.report.concluded,.as.it.always.did,.that."Both.Enterprises.were.financially.sound.and.well.managed.".

In.truth,.both.enterprises.had.engaged.in.massive.accounting.shenanigans.for.some.time..Finally,.in.
2006,.OFHEO.issued.a.340page.scathing.chronicle.of.the.sins.of.Fannie.that,.more.or.less,.blamed.the.fiasco.on.
every.party.but.-.you.guessed.it.-.Congress.and.OFHEO..

The.Bear.Stearns.collapse.highlights.the.counterparty.problem.embedded.in.derivatives.transactions,.a.
time.bomb.I.first.discussed.in.Berkshire's.2002.report..On.April.3,.2008,.Tim.Geithner,.then.the.able.president.of.
the.New.York.Fed,.explained.the.need.for.a.rescue:."The.sudden.discovery.by.Bear's.derivative.counterparties.
that.important.financial.positions.they.had.put.in.place.to.protect.themselves.from.financial.risk.were.no.longer.
operative.would.have.triggered.substantial.further.dislocation.in.markets..This.would.have.precipitated.a.rush.by.
Bear's.counterparties.to.liquidate.the.collateral.they.held.against.those.positions.and.to.attempt.to.replicate.those.
positions.in.already.very.fragile.markets.".This.is.Fedspeak.for."We.stepped.in.to.avoid.a.financial.chain.reaction.
of.unpredictable.magnitude.".In.my.opinion,.the.Fed.was.right.to.do.so..

A.normal.stock.or.bond.trade.is.completed.in.a.few.days.with.one.party.getting.its.cash,.the.other.its.
securities..Counterparty.risk.therefore.quickly.disappears,.which.means.credit.problems.can't.accumulate..This.
rapid.settlement.process.is.key.to.maintaining.the.integrity.of.markets..That,.in.fact,.is.a.reason.for.NYSE.and.
NASDAQ.shortening 
the.settlement.period.from.five.days.to.three.days.in.1995..

Derivatives.contracts,.in.contrast,.often.go.unsettled.for.years,.or.even.decades,.with.counterparties.
building.up.huge.claims.against.each.other.."Paper".assets.and.liabilities.-.often.hard.to.quantify.-.become.
important.parts.of.financial.statements.though.these.items.will.not.be.validated.for.many.years..Additionally,.a.
frightening.web.of.mutual.dependence.develops.among.huge.financial.institutions..Receivables.and.payables.by.
the.billions.become.concentrated.in.the.hands.of.a.few.large.dealers.who.are.apt.to.be.highlyleveraged.in.other.
ways.as.well..Participants.seeking.to.dodge.troubles.face.the.same.problem.as.someone.seeking.to.avoid.venereal.
disease:.It's.not.just.whom.you 
sleep.with,.but.also.whom.they 
are.sleeping.with..

17.


Sleeping.around,.to.continue.our.metaphor,.can.actually.be.useful.for.large.derivatives.dealers.because.
it.assures.them.government.aid.if.trouble.hits..In.other.words,.only.companies.having.problems.that.can.infect.
the.entire.neighborhood.-.I.won't.mention.names.-.are.certain.to.become.a.concern.of.the.state.(an.outcome,.I'm.
sad.to.say,.that.is.proper)..From.this.irritating.reality.comes.The 
First 
Law 
of 
Corporate 
Survival 
for.ambitious.
CEOs.who.pile.on.leverage.and.run.large.and.unfathomable.derivatives.books:.Modest.incompetence.simply.
won't.do;.it's.mindboggling.screwups.that.are.required..

Considering.the.ruin.I've.pictured,.you.may.wonder.why.Berkshire.is.a.party.to.251.derivatives.
contracts.(other.than.those.used.for.operational.purposes.at.MidAmerican.and.the.few.left.over.at.Gen.Re)..The.
answer.is.simple:.I.believe.each.contract.we.own.was.mispriced.at.inception,.sometimes.dramatically.so..I.both.
initiated.these.positions.and.monitor.them,.a.set.of.responsibilities.consistent.with.my.belief.that.the.CEO.of.any.
large.financial.organization.must 
be.the.Chief.Risk.Officer.as.well..If.we.lose.money.on.our.derivatives,.it.will.be.
my.fault..

Our.derivatives.dealings.require.our.counterparties.to.make.payments.to.us.when.contracts.are.
initiated..Berkshire.therefore.always.holds.the.money,.which.leaves.us.assuming.no.meaningful.counterparty.
risk..As.of.yearend,.the.payments.made.to.us.less.losses.we.have.paid.-.our.derivatives."float,".so.to.speak.-.
totaled.$8.1.billion..This.float.is.similar.to.insurance.float:.If.we.break.even.on.an.underlying.transaction,.we.will.
have.enjoyed.the.use.of.free.money.for.a.long.time..Our.expectation,.though.it.is.far.from.a.sure.thing,.is.that.we.
will.do.better.than.break.even.and.that.the.substantial.investment.income.we.earn.on.the.funds.will.be.frosting.on.
the.cake..

Only.a.small.percentage.of.our.contracts.call.for.any.posting.of.collateral.when.the.market.moves.
against.us..Even.under.the.chaotic.conditions.existing.in.last.year's.fourth.quarter,.we.had.to.post.less.than.1%.of.
our.securities.portfolio..(When.we.post.collateral,.we.deposit.it.with.third.parties,.meanwhile.retaining.the.
investment.earnings.on.the.deposited.securities.).In.our.2002.annual.report,.we.warned.of.the.lethal.threat.that.
posting.requirements.create,.reallife.illustrations.of.which.we.witnessed.last.year.at.a.variety.of.financial.
institutions.(and,.for.that.matter,.at.Constellation.Energy,.which.was.within.hours.of.bankruptcy.when.
MidAmerican.arrived.to.effect.a.rescue)..

Our.contracts.fall.into.four.major.categories..With.apologies.to.those.who.are.not.fascinated.by.
financial.instruments,.I.will.explain.them.in.excruciating.detail..

..We.have.added.modestly.to.the."equity.put".portfolio.I.described.in.last.year's.report..Some.of.our.
contracts.come.due.in.15.years,.others.in.20..We.must.make.a.payment.to.our.counterparty.at.
maturity.if.the.reference.index.to.which.the.put.is.tied.is.then.below.what.it.was.at.the.inception.of.
the.contract..Neither.party.can.elect.to.settle.early;.it's.only.the.price.on.the.final.day.that.counts..
To.illustrate,.we.might.sell.a.$1.billion.15year.put.contract.on.the.S&P.500.when.that.index.is.at,.
say,.1300..If.the.index.is.at.1170.-.down.10%.-.on.the.day.of.maturity,.we.would.pay.$100.million..
If.it.is.above.1300,.we.owe.nothing..For.us.to.lose.$1.billion,.the.index.would.have.to.go.to.zero..In.
the.meantime,.the.sale.of.the.put.would.have.delivered.us.a.premium.-.perhaps.$100.million.to.
$150.million.-.that.we.would.be.free.to.invest.as.we.wish..

Our.put.contracts.total.$37.1.billion.(at.current.exchange.rates).and.are.spread.among.four.major.
indices:.the.S&P.500.in.the.U.S.,.the.FTSE.100.in.the.U.K.,.the.Euro.Stoxx.50.in.Europe,.and.the.
Nikkei.225.in.Japan..Our.first.contract.comes.due.on.September.9,.2019.and.our.last.on.January.24,.
2028..We.have.received.premiums.of.$4.9.billion,.money.we.have.invested..We,.meanwhile,.have.
paid.nothing,.since.all.expiration.dates.are.far.in.the.future..Nonetheless,.we.have.used.Black
Scholes.valuation.methods.to.record.a.yearend.liability.of.$10.billion,.an.amount.that.will.change.
on.every.reporting.date..The.two.financial.items.-.this.estimated.loss.of.$10.billion.minus.the.$4.9.
billion.in.premiums.we.have.received.-.means.that.we.have.so.far.reported.a.marktomarket.loss.
of.$5.1.billion.from.these.contracts..

18.


We.endorse.marktomarket.accounting..I.will.explain.later,.however,.why.I.believe.the.Black
Scholes.formula,.even.though.it.is.the.standard.for.establishing.the.dollar.liability.for.options,.
produces.strange.results.when.the.longterm.variety.are.being.valued..

One.point.about.our.contracts.that.is.sometimes.not.understood:.For.us.to.lose.the.full.$37.1.billion.
we.have.at.risk,.all.stocks.in.all.four.indices.would.have.to.go.to.zero 
on.their.various.termination.
dates..If,.however.-.as.an.example.-.all.indices.fell.25%.from.their.value.at.the.inception.of.each.
contract,.and.foreignexchange.rates.remained.as.they.are.today,.we.would.owe.about.$9.billion,.
payable.between.2019.and.2028..Between.the.inception.of.the.contract.and.those.dates,.we.would.
have.held.the.$4.9.billion.premium.and.earned.investment.income.on.it..

..The.second.category.we.described.in.last.year's.report.concerns.derivatives.requiring.us.to.pay.
when.credit.losses.occur.at.companies.that.are.included.in.various.highyield.indices..Our.standard.
contract.covers.a.fiveyear.period.and.involves.100.companies..We.modestly.expanded.our.position.
last.year.in.this.category..But,.of.course,.the.contracts.on.the.books.at.the.end.of.2007.moved.one.
year.closer.to.their.maturity..Overall,.our.contracts.now.have.an.average.life.of.21.3.years,.with.the.
first.expiration.due.to.occur.on.September.20,.2009.and.the.last.on.December.20,.2013..
By.yearend.we.had.received.premiums.of.$3.4.billion.on.these.contracts.and.paid.losses.of.$542.
million..Using.marktomarket.principles,.we.also.set.up.a.liability.for.future.losses.that.at.yearend.
totaled.$3.0.billion..Thus.we.had.to.that.point.recorded.a.loss.of.about.$100.million,.derived.from.
our.$3.5.billion.total.in.paid.and.estimated.future.losses.minus.the.$3.4.billion.of.premiums.we.
received..In.our.quarterly.reports,.however,.the.amount.of.gain.or.loss.has.swung.wildly.from.a.
profit.of.$327.million.in.the.second.quarter.of.2008.to.a.loss.of.$693.million.in.the.fourth.quarter.of.
2008..

Surprisingly,.we.made.payments.on.these.contracts.of.only.$97.million.last.year,.far.below.the.
estimate.I.used.when.I.decided.to.enter.into.them..This.year,.however,.losses.have.accelerated.
sharply.with.the.mushrooming.of.large.bankruptcies..In.last.year's.letter,.I.told.you.I.expected.these.
contracts.to.show.a.profit.at.expiration..Now,.with.the.recession.deepening.at.a.rapid.rate,.the.
possibility.of.an.eventual.loss.has.increased..Whatever.the.result,.I.will.keep.you.posted..

..In.2008.we.began.to.write."credit.default.swaps".on.individual.companies..This.is.simply.credit.
insurance,.similar.to.what.we.write.in.BHAC,.except.that.here.we.bear.the.credit.risk.of.
corporations.rather.than.of.taxexempt.issuers..
If,.say,.the.XYZ.company.goes.bankrupt,.and.we.have.written.a.$100.million.contract,.we.are.
obligated.to.pay.an.amount.that.reflects.the.shrinkage.in.value.of.a.comparable.amount.of.XYZ's.
debt..(If,.for.example,.the.company's.bonds.are.selling.for.30.after.default,.we.would.owe.$70.
million.).For.the.typical.contract,.we.receive.quarterly.payments.for.five.years,.after.which.our.
insurance.expires..

At.yearend.we.had.written.$4.billion.of.contracts.covering.42.corporations,.for.which.we.receive.
annual.premiums.of.$93.million..This.is.the.only.derivatives.business.we.write.that.has.any.
counterparty.risk;.the.party.that.buys.the.contract.from.us.must.be.good.for.the.quarterly.premiums.
it.will.owe.us.over.the.five.years..We.are.unlikely.to.expand.this.business.to.any.extent.because.
most.buyers.of.this.protection.now.insist.that.the.seller.post.collateral,.and.we.will.not.enter.into.
such.an.arrangement..

..At.the.request.of.our.customers,.we.write.a.few.taxexempt.bond.insurance.contracts.that.are.
similar.to.those.written.at.BHAC,.but.that.are.structured.as.derivatives..The.only.meaningful.
difference.between.the.two.contracts.is.that.marktomarket.accounting.is.required.for.derivatives.
whereas.standard.accrual.accounting.is.required.at.BHAC..
19.


But.this.difference.can.produce.some.strange.results..The.bonds.covered.-.in.effect,.insured.-.by.
these.derivatives.are.largely.general.obligations.of.states,.and.we.feel.good.about.them..At.yearend,.
however,.marktomarket.accounting.required.us.to.record.a.loss.of.$631.million.on.these.
derivatives.contracts..Had.we.instead.insured.the.same.bonds.at.the.same.price.in.BHAC,.and.used.
the.accrual.accounting.required.at.insurance.companies,.we.would.have.recorded.a.small.profit 
for.
the.year..The.two.methods.by.which.we.insure.the.bonds.will.eventually.produce.the.same.
accounting.result..In.the.short.term,.however,.the.variance.in.reported.profits.can.be.substantial..

We.have.told.you.before.that.our.derivative.contracts,.subject.as.they.are.to.marktomarket.
accounting,.will.produce.wild.swings.in.the.earnings.we.report..The.ups.and.downs.neither.cheer.nor.bother.
Charlie.and.me..Indeed,.the."downs".can.be.helpful.in.that.they.give.us.an.opportunity.to.expand.a.position.on.
favorable.terms..I.hope.this.explanation.of.our.dealings.will.lead.you.to.think.similarly..



The.BlackScholes.formula.has.approached.the.status.of.holy.writ.in.finance,.and.we.use.it.when.
valuing.our.equity.put.options.for.financial.statement.purposes..Key.inputs.to.the.calculation.include.a.contract's.
maturity.and.strike.price,.as.well.as.the.analyst's.expectations.for.volatility,.interest.rates.and.dividends..

If.the.formula.is.applied.to.extended.time.periods,.however,.it.can.produce.absurd.results..In.fairness,.
Black.and.Scholes.almost.certainly.understood.this.point.well..But.their.devoted.followers.may.be.ignoring.
whatever.caveats.the.two.men.attached.when.they.first.unveiled.the.formula..

It's.often.useful.in.testing.a.theory.to.push.it.to.extremes..So.let's.postulate.that.we.sell.a.100year.$1.
billion.put.option.on.the.S&P.500.at.a.strike.price.of.903.(the.index's.level.on.12/31/08)..Using.the.implied.
volatility.assumption.for.longdated.contracts.that.we.do,.and.combining.that.with.appropriate.interest.and.
dividend.assumptions,.we.would.find.the."proper".BlackScholes.premium.for.this.contract.to.be.$2.5.million..

To.judge.the.rationality.of.that.premium,.we.need.to.assess.whether.the.S&P.will.be.valued.a.century.
from.now.at.less.than.today..Certainly.the.dollar.will.then.be.worth.a.small.fraction.of.its.present.value.(at.only.
2%.inflation.it.will.be.worth.roughly.14?)..So.that.will.be.a.factor.pushing.the.stated.value.of.the.index.higher..
Far.more.important,.however,.is.that.one.hundred.years.of.retained.earnings.will.hugely.increase.the.value.of.
most.of.the.companies.in.the.index..In.the.20th.Century,.the.DowJones.Industrial.Average.increased.by.about.
175fold,.mainly.because.of.this.retainedearnings.factor..

Considering.everything,.I.believe.the.probability.of.a.decline.in.the.index.over.a.onehundredyear.
period.to.be.far 
less.than.1%..But.let's.use.that.figure.and.also.assume.that.the.most.likely.decline.-.should.one.
occur.-.is.50%..Under.these.assumptions,.the.mathematical.expectation.of.loss.on.our.contract.would.be.$5.
million.($1.billion.X.1%.X.50%)..

But.if.we.had.received.our.theoretical.premium.of.$2.5.million.up.front,.we.would.have.only.had.to.
invest.it.at.0.7%.compounded.annually.to.cover.this.loss.expectancy..Everything.earned.above.that.would.have.
been.profit..Would.you.like.to.borrow.money.for.100.years.at.a.0.7%.rate?.

Let's.look.at.my.example.from.a.worstcase.standpoint..Remember.that.99%.of.the.time.we.would.pay.
nothing.if.my.assumptions.are.correct..But.even.in.the.worst.case.among.the.remaining.1%.of.possibilities.-.that.
is,.one.assuming.a.total 
loss.of.$1.billion.-.our.borrowing.cost.would.come.to.only.6.2%..Clearly,.either.my.
assumptions.are.crazy.or.the.formula.is.inappropriate..

20.


The.ridiculous.premium.that.BlackScholes.dictates.in.my.extreme.example.is.caused.by.the.inclusion.
of.volatility.in.the.formula.and.by.the.fact.that.volatility.is.determined.by.how.much.stocks.have.moved.around.
in.some.past.period.of.days,.months.or.years..This.metric.is.simply.irrelevant.in.estimating.the.probability
weighted.range.of.values.of.American.business.100.years.from.now..(Imagine,.if.you.will,.getting.a.quote.every.
day.on.a.farm.from.a.manicdepressive.neighbor.and.then.using.the.volatility.calculated.from.these.changing.
quotes.as.an.important.ingredient.in.an.equation.that.predicts.a.probabilityweighted.range.of.values.for.the.farm.
a.century.from.now.).

Though.historical.volatility.is.a.useful.-.but.far.from.foolproof.-.concept.in.valuing.shortterm.options,.
its.utility.diminishes.rapidly.as.the.duration.of.the.option.lengthens..In.my.opinion,.the.valuations.that.the.Black
Scholes.formula.now.place.on.our.longterm.put.options.overstate.our.liability,.though.the.overstatement.will.
diminish.as.the.contracts.approach.maturity..

Even.so,.we.will.continue.to.use.BlackScholes.when.we.are.estimating.our.financialstatement.
liability.for.longterm.equity.puts..The.formula.represents.conventional.wisdom.and.any.substitute.that.I.might.
offer.would.engender.extreme.skepticism..That.would.be.perfectly.understandable:.CEOs.who.have.concocted.
their.own.valuations.for.esoteric.financial.instruments.have.seldom.erred.on.the.side.of.conservatism..That.club.
of.optimists.is.one.that.Charlie.and.I.have.no.desire.to.join..

The 
Annual 
Meeting 


Our.meeting.this.year.will.be.held.on.Saturday,.May.2nd..As.always,.the.doors.will.open.at.the.Qwest.
Center.at.7.a.m.,.and.a.new.Berkshire.movie.will.be.shown.at.8:30..At.9:30.we.will.go.directly.to.the.
questionandanswer.period,.which.(with.a.break.for.lunch.at.the.Qwest's.stands).will.last.until.3:00..Then,.after.
a.short.recess,.Charlie.and.I.will.convene.the.annual.meeting.at.3:15..If.you.decide.to.leave.during.the.day's.
question.periods,.please.do.so.while.Charlie 
is.talking..

The.best.reason.to.exit,.of.course,.is.to.shop..We.will.help.you.do.that.by.filling.the.194,300squarefoot
.hall.that.adjoins.the.meeting.area.with.the.products.of.Berkshire.subsidiaries..Last.year,.the.31,000.people.
who.came.to.the.meeting.did.their.part,.and.almost.every.location.racked.up.record.sales..But.you.can.do.better..
(A.friendly.warning:.If.I.find.sales.are.lagging,.I.lock.the.exits.).

This.year.Clayton.will.showcase.its.new.ihouse 
that.includes.Shaw.flooring,.Johns.Manville.insulation.
and.MiTek.fasteners..This.innovative."green".home,.featuring.solar.panels.and.numerous.other.energysaving.
products,.is.truly.a.home.of.the.future..Estimated.costs.for.electricity.and.heating.total.only.about.$1.per.day.
when.the.home.is.sited.in.an.area.like.Omaha..After.purchasing.the.ihouse,.you.should.next.consider.the.Forest.
River.RV.and.pontoon.boat.on.display.nearby..Make.your.neighbors.jealous..

GEICO.will.have.a.booth.staffed.by.a.number.of.its.top.counselors.from.around.the.country,.all.of.
them.ready.to.supply.you.with.auto.insurance.quotes..In.most.cases,.GEICO.will.be.able.to.give.you.a.
shareholder.discount.(usually.8%)..This.special.offer.is.permitted.by.44.of.the.50.jurisdictions.in.which.we.
operate..(One.supplemental.point:.The.discount.is.not.additive.if.you.qualify.for.another,.such.as.that.given.
certain.groups.).Bring.the.details.of.your.existing.insurance.and.check.out.whether.we.can.save.you.money..For.
at.least.50%.of.you,.I.believe.we.can..

On.Saturday,.at.the.Omaha.airport,.we.will.have.the.usual.array.of.NetJets.aircraft.available.for.your.
inspection..Stop.by.the.NetJets.booth.at.the.Qwest.to.learn.about.viewing.these.planes..Come.to.Omaha.by.bus;.
leave.in.your.new.plane..And.take.along.-.with.no.fear.of.a.strip.search.-.the.Ginsu.knives.that.you've.purchased.
at.the.exhibit.of.our.Quikut.subsidiary..

Next,.if.you.have.any.money.left,.visit.the.Bookworm,.which.will.be.selling.about.30.books.and.
DVDs..A.shipping.service.will.be.available.for.those.whose.thirst.for.knowledge.exceeds.their.carrying.capacity..

21.


Finally,.we.will.have.three.fascinating.cars.on.the.exhibition.floor,.including.one.from.the.past.and.one.
of.the.future..Paul.Andrews,.CEO.of.our.subsidiary,.TTI,.will.bring.his.1935.Duesenberg,.a.car.that.once.
belonged.to.Mrs..Forrest.Mars,.Sr.,.parent.and.grandparent.of.our.new.partners.in.the.Wrigley.purchase..The.
future.will.be.represented.by.a.new.plugin.electric.car.developed.by.BYD,.an.amazing.Chinese.company.in.
which.we.have.a.10%.interest..

An.attachment.to.the.proxy.material.that.is.enclosed.with.this.report.explains.how.you.can.obtain.the.
credential.you.will.need.for.admission.to.the.meeting.and.other.events..As.for.plane,.hotel.and.car.reservations,.
we.have.again.signed.up.American.Express.(8007996634).to.give.you.special.help..Carol.Pedersen,.who.
handles.these.matters,.does.a.terrific.job.for.us.each.year,.and.I.thank.her.for.it..Hotel.rooms.can.be.hard.to.find,.
but.work.with.Carol.and.you.will.get.one..

At.Nebraska.Furniture.Mart,.located.on.a.77acre.site.on.72nd.Street.between.Dodge.and.Pacific,.we.
will.again.be.having."Berkshire.Weekend".discount.pricing..We.initiated.this.special.event.at.NFM.twelve.years.
ago,.and.sales.during.the."Weekend".grew.from.$5.3.million.in.1997.to.a.record.$33.3.million.in.2008..On.
Saturday.of.that.weekend,.we.also.set.a.single.day.record.of.$7.2.million..Ask.any.retailer.what.he.thinks.of.such.
volume..

To.obtain.the.Berkshire.discount,.you.must.make.your.purchases.between.Thursday,.April.30th.and.
Monday,.May.4th.inclusive,.and.also.present.your.meeting.credential..The.period's.special.pricing.will.even.
apply.to.the.products.of.several.prestigious.manufacturers.that.normally.have.ironclad.rules.against.discounting.
but.which,.in.the.spirit.of.our.shareholder.weekend,.have.made.an.exception.for.you..We.appreciate.their.
cooperation..NFM.is.open.from.10.a.m..to.9.p.m..Monday.through.Saturday,.and.10.a.m..to.6.p.m..on.Sunday..
On.Saturday.this.year,.from.5:30.p.m..to.8.p.m.,.NFM.is.having.a.western.cookout.to.which.you.are.all.invited..

At.Borsheims,.we.will.again.have.two.shareholderonly.events..The.first.will.be.a.cocktail.reception.
from.6.p.m..to.10.p.m..on.Friday,.May.1st..The.second,.the.main.gala,.will.be.held.on.Sunday,.May.3rd,.from.9.

a.m..to.4.p.m..On.Saturday,.we.will.be.open.until.6.p.m..
We.will.have.huge.crowds.at.Borsheims.throughout.the.weekend..For.your.convenience,.therefore,.
shareholder.prices.will.be.available.from.Monday,.April.27th.through.Saturday,.May.9th..During.that.period,.
please.identify.yourself.as.a.shareholder.by.presenting.your.meeting.credentials.or.a.brokerage.statement.that.
shows.you.are.a.Berkshire.holder..

On.Sunday,.in.the.mall.outside.of.Borsheims,.a.blindfolded.Patrick.Wolff,.twice.U.S..chess.champion,.
will.take.on.all.comers.-.who.will.have.their.eyes.wide.open.-.in.groups.of.six..Nearby,.Norman.Beck,.a.
remarkable.magician.from.Dallas,.will.bewilder.onlookers..Additionally,.we.will.have.Bob.Hamman.and.Sharon.
Osberg,.two.of.the.world's.top.bridge.experts,.available.to.play.bridge.with.our.shareholders.on.Sunday.
afternoon..

Gorat's.will.again.be.open.exclusively.for.Berkshire.shareholders.on.Sunday,.May.3rd,.and.will.be.
serving.from.1.p.m..until.10.p.m..Last.year.Gorat's,.which.seats.240,.served.975.dinners.on.Shareholder.Sunday..
The.threeday.total.was.2,448.including.702.Tbone.steaks,.the.entr俥.preferred.by.the.cognoscenti..Please.don't.
embarrass.me.by.ordering.foie.gras..Remember:.To.come.to.Gorat's.on.that.day,.you.must.have.a.reservation..To.
make.one,.call.4025513733.on.April.1st.(but 
not 
before)..

We.will.again.have.a.reception.at.4.p.m..on.Saturday.afternoon.for.shareholders.who.have.come.from.
outside.North.America..Every.year.our.meeting.draws.many.people.from.around.the.globe,.and.Charlie.and.I.
want.to.be.sure.we.personally.greet.those.who.have.come.so.far..Last.year.we.enjoyed.meeting.more.than.700.of.
you.from.many.dozens.of.countries..Any.shareholder.who.comes.from.outside.the.U.S..or.Canada.will.be.given.a.
special.credential.and.instructions.for.attending.this.function..



22.


This.year.we.will.be.making.important.changes.in.how.we.handle.the.meeting's.question.periods..In.
recent.years,.we.have.received.only.a.handful.of.questions.directly.related.to.Berkshire.and.its.operations..Last.
year.there.were.practically.none..So.we.need.to.steer.the.discussion.back.to.Berkshire's.businesses..

In.a.related.problem,.there.has.been.a.mad.rush.when.the.doors.open.at.7.a.m.,.led.by.people.who.wish.
to.be.first.in.line.at.the.12.microphones.available.for.questioners..This.is.not.desirable.from.a.safety.standpoint,.
nor.do.we.believe.that.sprinting.ability.should.be.the.determinant.of.who.gets.to.pose.questions..(At.age.78,.I've.
concluded.that.speed.afoot.is.a.ridiculously.overrated.talent.).Again,.a.new.procedure.is.desirable..

In.our.first.change,.several.financial.journalists.from.organizations.representing.newspapers,.
magazines.and.television.will.participate.in.the.questionandanswer.period,.asking.Charlie.and.me.questions.that.
shareholders.have.submitted.by.email..The.journalists.and.their.email.addresses.are:.Carol.Loomis,.of.Fortune,.
who.may.be.emailed.at.cloomis@fortunemail.com;.Becky.Quick,.of.CNBC,.at.BerkshireQuestions@cnbc.com,.
and.Andrew.Ross.Sorkin,.of.The.New.York.Times,.at.arsorkin@nytimes.com..From.the.questions.submitted,.
each.journalist.will.choose.the.dozen.or.so.he.or.she.decides.are.the.most.interesting.and.important..(In.your.
email,.let.the.journalist.know.if.you.would.like.your.name.mentioned.if.your.question.is.selected.).

Neither.Charlie.nor.I.will.get.so.much.as.a.clue.about.the.questions.to.be.asked..We.know.the.
journalists.will.pick.some.tough.ones.and.that's.the.way.we.like.it..

In.our.second.change,.we.will.have.a.drawing.at.8:15.at.each.microphone.for.those.shareholders.
hoping.to.ask.questions.themselves..At.the.meeting,.I.will.alternate.the.questions.asked.by.the.journalists.with.
those.from.the.winning.shareholders..At.least.half.the.questions.-.those.selected.by.the.panel.from.your.
submissions.-.are.therefore.certain.to.be.Berkshirerelated..We.will.meanwhile.continue.to.get.some.good.-.and.
perhaps.entertaining.-.questions.from.the.audience.as.well..

So.join.us.at.our.Woodstock.for.Capitalists.and.let.us.know.how.you.like.the.new.format..Charlie.and.I.
look.forward.to.seeing.you..


To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
The pershare book value of both our Class A and Class B stock increased by 13% in 2010. Over the 
last 46 years (that is, since present management took over), book value has grown from $19 to $95,453, a rate of 
20.2% compounded annually. 
The highlight of 2010 was our acquisition of Burlington Northern Santa Fe, a purchase that's working 
out even better than I expected. It now appears that owning this railroad will increase Berkshire's "normal" 
earning power by nearly 40% pretax and by well over 30% aftertax. Making this purchase increased our share 
count by 6% and used $22 billion of cash. Since we've quickly replenished the cash, the economics of this 
transaction have turned out very well. 
A "normal year," of course, is not something that either Charlie Munger, Vice Chairman of Berkshire 
and my partner, or I can define with anything like precision. But for the purpose of estimating our current earning 
power, we are envisioning a year free of a megacatastrophe in insurance and possessing a general business 
climate somewhat better than that of 2010 but weaker than that of 2005 or 2006. Using these assumptions, and 
several others that I will explain in the "Investment" section, I can estimate that the normal earning power of the 
assets we currently own is about $17 billion pretax and $12 billion aftertax, excluding any capital gains or 
losses. Every day Charlie and I think about how we can build on this base. 
Both of us are enthusiastic about BNSF's future because railroads have major cost and environmental 
advantages over trucking, their main competitor. Last year BNSF moved each ton of freight it carried a record 
500 miles on a single gallon of diesel fuel. That's three times more fuelefficient than trucking is, which means 
our railroad owns an important advantage in operating costs. Concurrently, our country gains because of reduced 
greenhouse emissions and a much smaller need for imported oil. When traffic travels by rail, society benefits. 
Over time, the movement of goods in the United States will increase, and BNSF should get its full 
share of the gain. The railroad will need to invest massively to bring about this growth, but no one is better 
situated than Berkshire to supply the funds required. However slow the economy, or chaotic the markets, our 
checks will clear. 
Last year - in the face of widespread pessimism about our economy - we demonstrated our enthusiasm 
for capital investment at Berkshire by spending $6 billion on property and equipment. Of this amount, 
$5.4 billion - or 90% of the total - was spent in the United States. Certainly our businesses will expand abroad in 
the future, but an overwhelming part of their future investments will be at home. In 2011, we will set a new 
record for capital spending - $8 billion - and spend all of the $2 billion increase in the United States. 
Money will always flow toward opportunity, and there is an abundance of that in America. 
Commentators today often talk of "great uncertainty." But think back, for example, to December 6, 
1941, October 18, 1987 and September 10, 2001. No matter how serene today may be, tomorrow is always 
uncertain.
 All pershare figures used in this report apply to Berkshire's A shares. Figures for the B shares are 
1/1500th of those shown for A. 

Don't let that reality spook you. Throughout my lifetime, politicians and pundits have constantly 
moaned about terrifying problems facing America. Yet our citizens now live an astonishing six times better than 
when I was born. The prophets of doom have overlooked the allimportant factor that is certain: Human potential 
is far from exhausted, and the American system for unleashing that potential - a system that has worked wonders 
for over two centuries despite frequent interruptions for recessions and even a Civil War - remains alive and 
effective. 
We are not natively smarter than we were when our country was founded nor do we work harder. But 
look around you and see a world beyond the dreams of any colonial citizen. Now, as in 1776, 1861, 1932 and 
1941, America's best days lie ahead. 
Performance 
Charlie and I believe that those entrusted with handling the funds of others should establish 
performance goals at the onset of their stewardship. Lacking such standards, managements are tempted to shoot 
the arrow of performance and then paint the bull'seye around wherever it lands. 
In Berkshire's case, we long ago told you that our job is to increase pershare intrinsic value at a rate 
greater than the increase (including dividends) of the S&P 500. In some years we succeed; in others we fail. But, 
if we are unable over time to reach that goal, we have done nothing for our investors, who by themselves could 
have realized an equal or better result by owning an index fund. 
The challenge, of course, is the calculation of intrinsic value. Present that task to Charlie and me 
separately, and you will get two different answers. Precision just isn't possible. 
To eliminate subjectivity, we therefore use an understated proxy for intrinsicvalue - book value - 
when measuring our performance. To be sure, some of our businesses are worth far more than their carrying 
value on our books. (Later in this report, we'll present a case study.) But since that premium seldom swings 
wildly from year to year, book value can serve as a reasonable device for tracking how we are doing. 
The table on page 2 shows our 46year record against the S&P, a performance quite good in the earlier 
years and now only satisfactory. The bountiful years, we want to emphasize, will never return. The huge sums of 
capital we currently manage eliminate any chance of exceptional performance. We will strive, however, for 
betterthanaverage results and feel it fair for you to hold us to that standard. 
Yearly figures, it should be noted, are neither to be ignored nor viewed as allimportant. The pace of 
the earth's movement around the sun is not synchronized with the time required for either investment ideas or 
operating decisions to bear fruit. At GEICO, for example, we enthusiastically spent $900 million last year on 
advertising to obtain policyholders who deliver us no immediate profits. If we could spend twice that amount 
productively, we would happily do so though shortterm results would be further penalized. Many large 
investments at our railroad and utility operations are also made with an eye to payoffs well down the road. 
To provide you a longerterm perspective on performance, we present on the facing page the yearly 
figures from page 2 recast into a series of fiveyear periods. Overall, there are 42 of these periods, and they tell 
an interesting story. On a comparative basis, our best years ended in the early 1980s. The market's golden period, 
however, came in the 17 following years, with Berkshire achieving stellar absolute returns even as our relative 
advantage narrowed. 
After 1999, the market stalled (or have you already noticed that?). Consequently, the satisfactory 
performance relative to the S&P that Berkshire has achieved since then has delivered only moderate absolute 
results. 
Looking forward, we hope to average several points better than the S&P - though that result is, of 
course, far from a sure thing. If we succeed in that aim, we will almost certainly produce better relative results in 
bad years for the stock market and suffer poorer results in strong markets. 

Berkshire's Corporate Performance vs. the S&P 500 by FiveYear Periods 
Annual Percentage Change 
FiveYear Period 
in PerShare 
Book Value of 
Berkshire 

Intrinsic Value - Today and Tomorrow 
Though Berkshire's intrinsic value cannot be precisely calculated, two of its three key pillars can be 
measured. Charlie and I rely heavily on these measurements when we make our own estimates of Berkshire's 
value. 
The first component of value is our investments: stocks, bonds and cash equivalents. At yearend these 
totaled $158 billion at market value. 
Insurance float - money we temporarily hold in our insurance operations that does not belong to us - 
funds $66 billion of our investments. This float is "free" as long as insurance underwriting breaks even, meaning 
that the premiums we receive equal the losses and expenses we incur. Of course, underwriting results are volatile, 
swinging erratically between profits and losses. Over our entire history, though, we've been significantly 
profitable, and I also expect us to average breakeven results or better in the future. If we do that, all of our 
investments - those funded both by float and by retained earnings - can be viewed as an element of value for 
Berkshire shareholders. 
Berkshire's second component of value is earnings that come from sources other than investments and 
insurance underwriting. These earnings are delivered by our 68 noninsurance companies, itemized on page 106. 
In Berkshire's early years, we focused on the investment side. During the past two decades, however, we've 
increasingly emphasized the development of earnings from noninsurance businesses, a practice that will 
continue. 
The following tables illustrate this shift. In the first table, we present pershare investments at decade 
intervals beginning in 1970, three years after we entered the insurance business. We exclude those investments 
applicable to minority interests. 
Yearend 
PerShare 
Investments Period 
Compounded Annual Increase 
in PerShare Investments 

Though our compounded annual increase in pershare investments was a healthy 19.9% over the 
40year period, our rate of increase has slowed sharply as we have focused on using funds to buy operating 
businesses. 
The payoff from this shift is shown in the following table, which illustrates how earnings of our 
noninsurance businesses have increased, again on a pershare basis and after applicable minority interests. 
Year 
PerShare 
PreTax Earnings Period 
Compounded Annual Increase in 
PerShare PreTax Earnings 

For the forty years, our compounded annual gain in pretax, noninsurance earnings per share is 21.0%. 
During the same period, Berkshire's stock price increased at a rate of 22.1% annually. Over time, you can expect 
our stock price to move in rough tandem with Berkshire's investments and earnings. Market price and intrinsic 
value often follow very different paths - sometimes for extended periods - but eventually they meet. 
There is a third, more subjective, element to an intrinsic value calculation that can be either positive or 
negative: the efficacy with which retained earnings will be deployed in the future. We, as well as many other 
businesses, are likely to retain earnings over the next decade that will equal, or even exceed, the capital we presently 
employ. Some companies will turn these retained dollars into fiftycent pieces, others into twodollar bills. 
This "whatwilltheydowiththemoney" factor must always be evaluated along with the 
"whatdowehavenow" calculation in order for us, or anybody, to arrive at a sensible estimate of a company's 
intrinsic value. That's because an outside investor stands by helplessly as management reinvests his share of the 
company's earnings. If a CEO can be expected to do this job well, the reinvestment prospects add to the 
company's current value; if the CEO's talents or motives are suspect, today's value must be discounted. The 
difference in outcome can be huge. A dollar of thenvalue in the hands of Sears Roebuck's or Montgomery 
Ward's CEOs in the late 1960s had a far different destiny than did a dollar entrusted to Sam Walton. 

Charlie and I hope that the pershare earnings of our noninsurance businesses continue to increase at a 
decent rate. But the job gets tougher as the numbers get larger. We will need both good performance from our 
current businesses and more major acquisitions. We're prepared. Our elephant gun has been reloaded, and my 
trigger finger is itchy. 
Partially offsetting our anchor of size are several important advantages we have. First, we possess a 
cadre of truly skilled managers who have an unusual commitment to their own operations and to Berkshire. 
Many of our CEOs are independently wealthy and work only because they love what they do. They are 
volunteers, not mercenaries. Because no one can offer them a job they would enjoy more, they can't be lured 
away. 
At Berkshire, managers can focus on running their businesses: They are not subjected to meetings at 
headquarters nor financing worries nor Wall Street harassment. They simply get a letter from me every two years 
(it's reproduced on pages 104105) and call me when they wish. And their wishes do differ: There are managers 
to whom I have not talked in the last year, while there is one with whom I talk almost daily. Our trust is in people 
rather than process. A "hire well, manage little" code suits both them and me. 
Berkshire's CEOs come in many forms. Some have MBAs; others never finished college. Some use 
budgets and are bythebook types; others operate by the seat of their pants. Our team resembles a baseball squad 
composed of allstars having vastly different batting styles. Changes in our lineup are seldom required. 
Our second advantage relates to the allocation of the money our businesses earn. After meeting the 
needs of those businesses, we have very substantial sums left over. Most companies limit themselves to 
reinvesting funds within the industry in which they have been operating. That often restricts them, however, to a 
"universe" for capital allocation that is both tiny and quite inferior to what is available in the wider world. 
Competition for the few opportunities that are available tends to become fierce. The seller has the upper hand, as 
a girl might if she were the only female at a party attended by many boys. That lopsided situation would be great 
for the girl, but terrible for the boys. 
At Berkshire we face no institutional restraints when we deploy capital. Charlie and I are limited only 
by our ability to understand the likely future of a possible acquisition. If we clear that hurdle - and frequently we 
can't - we are then able to compare any one opportunity against a host of others. 

When I took control of Berkshire in 1965, I didn't exploit this advantage. Berkshire was then only in 
textiles, where it had in the previous decade lost significant money. The dumbest thing I could have done was to 
pursue "opportunities" to improve and expand the existing textile operation - so for years that's exactly what I 
did. And then, in a final burst of brilliance, I went out and bought another textile company. Aaaaaaargh! 
Eventually I came to my senses, heading first into insurance and then into other industries. 
There is even a supplement to this worldisouroyster advantage: In addition to evaluating the 
attractions of one business against a host of others, we also measure businesses against opportunities available in 
marketable securities, a comparison most managements don't make. Often, businesses are priced ridiculously 
high against what can likely be earned from investments in stocks or bonds. At such moments, we buy securities 
and bide our time. 
Our flexibility in respect to capital allocation has accounted for much of our progress to date. We have 
been able to take money we earn from, say, See's Candies or Business Wire (two of our bestrun businesses, but 
also two offering limited reinvestment opportunities) and use it as part of the stake we needed to buy BNSF. 
Our final advantage is the hardtoduplicate culture that permeates Berkshire. And in businesses, 
culture counts. 
To start with, the directors who represent you think and act like owners. They receive token 
compensation: no options, no restricted stock and, for that matter, virtually no cash. We do not provide them 
directors and officers liability insurance, a given at almost every other large public company. If they mess up 
with your money, they will lose their money as well. Leaving my holdings aside, directors and their families own 
Berkshire shares worth more than $3 billion. Our directors, therefore, monitor Berkshire's actions and results 
with keen interest and an owner's eye. You and I are lucky to have them as stewards. 
This same ownerorientation prevails among our managers. In many cases, these are people who have 
sought out Berkshire as an acquirer for a business that they and their families have long owned. They came to us 
with an owner's mindset, and we provide an environment that encourages them to retain it. Having managers 
who love their businesses is no small advantage. 
Cultures selfpropagate. Winston Churchill once said, "You shape your houses and then they shape 
you." That wisdom applies to businesses as well. Bureaucratic procedures beget more bureaucracy, and imperial 
corporate palaces induce imperious behavior. (As one wag put it, "You know you're no longer CEO when you 
get in the back seat of your car and it doesn't move.") At Berkshire's "World Headquarters" our annual rent is 
$270,212. Moreover, the homeoffice investment in furniture, art, Coke dispenser, lunch room, hightech 
equipment - you name it - totals $301,363. As long as Charlie and I treat your money as if it were our own, 
Berkshire's managers are likely to be careful with it as well. 
Our compensation programs, our annual meeting and even our annual reports are all designed with an 
eye to reinforcing the Berkshire culture, and making it one that will repel and expel managers of a different bent. 
This culture grows stronger every year, and it will remain intact long after Charlie and I have left the scene. 
We will need all of the strengths I've just described to do reasonably well. Our managers will deliver; 
you can count on that. But whether Charlie and I can hold up our end in capital allocation depends in part on the 
competitive environment for acquisitions. You will get our best efforts. 
GEICO 
Now let me tell you a story that will help you understand how the intrinsic value of a business can far 
exceed its book value. Relating this tale also gives me a chance to relive some great memories. 
Sixty years ago last month, GEICO entered my life, destined to shape it in a huge way. I was then a 
20yearold graduate student at Columbia, having elected to go there because my hero, Ben Graham, taught a 
onceaweek class at the school. 

One day at the library, I checked out Ben's entry in Who's Who in America and found he was 
chairman of Government Employees Insurance Co. (now called GEICO). I knew nothing of insurance and had 
never heard of the company. The librarian, however, steered me to a large compendium of insurers and, after 
reading the page on GEICO, I decided to visit the company. The following Saturday, I boarded an early train for 
Washington. 
Alas, when I arrived at the company's headquarters, the building was closed. I then rather frantically 
started pounding on a door, until finally a janitor appeared. I asked him if there was anyone in the office I could 
talk to, and he steered me to the only person around, Lorimer Davidson. 
That was my lucky moment. During the next four hours, "Davy" gave me an education about both 
insurance and GEICO. It was the beginning of a wonderful friendship. Soon thereafter, I graduated from 
Columbia and became a stock salesman in Omaha. GEICO, of course, was my prime recommendation, which got 
me off to a great start with dozens of customers. GEICO also jumpstarted my net worth because, soon after 
meeting Davy, I made the stock 75% of my $9,800 investment portfolio. (Even so, I felt overdiversified.) 
Subsequently, Davy became CEO of GEICO, taking the company to undreamedof heights before it got 
into trouble in the mid1970s, a few years after his retirement. When that happened - with the stock falling by 
more than 95% - Berkshire bought about onethird of the company in the market, a position that over the years 
increased to 50% because of GEICO's repurchases of its own shares. Berkshire's cost for this half of the business 
was $46 million. (Despite the size of our position, we exercised no control over operations.) 
We then purchased the remaining 50% of GEICO at the beginning of 1996, which spurred Davy, at 95, 
to make a video tape saying how happy he was that his beloved GEICO would permanently reside with 
Berkshire. (He also playfully concluded with, "Next time, Warren, please make an appointment.") 
A lot has happened at GEICO during the last 60 years, but its core goal - saving Americans substantial 
money on their purchase of auto insurance - remains unchanged. (Try us at 18008477536 or 
www.GEICO.com.) In other words, get the policyholder's business by deserving his business. Focusing on this 
objective, the company has grown to be America's thirdlargest auto insurer, with a market share of 8.8%. 
When Tony Nicely, GEICO's CEO, took over in 1993, that share was 2.0%, a level at which it had 
been stuck for more than a decade. GEICO became a different company under Tony, finding a path to consistent 
growth while simultaneously maintaining underwriting discipline and keeping its costs low. 
Let me quantify Tony's achievement. When, in 1996, we bought the 50% of GEICO we didn't already 
own, it cost us about $2.3 billion. That price implied a value of $4.6 billion for 100%. GEICO then had tangible 
net worth of $1.9 billion. 
The excess over tangible net worth of the implied value - $2.7 billion - was what we estimated 
GEICO's "goodwill" to be worth at that time. That goodwill represented the economic value of the policyholders 
who were then doing business with GEICO. In 1995, those customers had paid the company $2.8 billion in 
premiums. Consequently, we were valuing GEICO's customers at about 97% (2.7/2.8) of what they were 
annually paying the company. By industry standards, that was a very high price. But GEICO was no ordinary 
insurer: Because of the company's low costs, its policyholders were consistently profitable and unusually loyal. 
Today, premium volume is $14.3 billion and growing. Yet we carry the goodwill of GEICO on our 
books at only $1.4 billion, an amount that will remain unchanged no matter how much the value of GEICO 
increases. (Under accounting rules, you write down the carrying value of goodwill if its economic value 
decreases, but leave it unchanged if economic value increases.) Using the 97%ofpremiumvolume yardstick we 
applied to our 1996 purchase, the real value today of GEICO's economic goodwill is about $14 billion. And this 
value is likely to be much higher ten and twenty years from now. GEICO - off to a strong start in 2011 - is the 
gift that keeps giving. 

One notsosmall footnote: Under Tony, GEICO has developed one of the country's largest personallines 
insurance agencies, which primarily sells homeowners policies to our GEICO auto insurance customers. In 
this business, we represent a number of insurers that are not affiliated with us. They take the risk; we simply sign 
up the customers. Last year we sold 769,898 new policies at this agency operation, up 34% from the year before. 
The obvious way this activity aids us is that it produces commission revenue; equally important is the fact that it 
further strengthens our relationship with our policyholders, helping us retain them. 
I owe an enormous debt to Tony and Davy (and, come to think of it, to that janitor as well). 
            
Now, let's examine the four major sectors of Berkshire. Each has vastly different balance sheet and 
income characteristics from the others. Lumping them together therefore impedes analysis. So we'll present them 
as four separate businesses, which is how Charlie and I view them. 
We will look first at insurance, Berkshire's core operation and the engine that has propelled our 
expansion over the years. 
Insurance
Propertycasualty ("P/C") insurers receive premiums upfront and pay claims later. In extreme cases, 
such as those arising from certain workers' compensation accidents, payments can stretch over decades. This 
collectnow, paylater model leaves us holding large sums - money we call "float" - that will eventually go to 
others. Meanwhile, we get to invest this float for Berkshire's benefit. Though individual policies and claims 
come and go, the amount of float we hold remains remarkably stable in relation to premium volume. 
Consequently, as our business grows, so does our float. And how we have grown: Just take a look at the 
following table: 

If our premiums exceed the total of our expenses and eventual losses, we register an underwriting profit 
that adds to the investment income that our float produces. When such a profit occurs, we enjoy the use of free 
money - and, better yet, get paid for holding it. Alas, the wish of all insurers to achieve this happy result creates 
intense competition, so vigorous in most years that it causes the P/C industry as a whole to operate at a 
significant underwriting loss. This loss, in effect, is what the industry pays to hold its float. For example, State 
Farm, by far the country's largest insurer and a wellmanaged company, has incurred an underwriting loss in 
seven of the last ten years. During that period, its aggregate underwriting loss was more than $20 billion. 
At Berkshire, we have now operated at an underwriting profit for eight consecutive years, our total 
underwriting gain for the period having been $17 billion. I believe it likely that we will continue to underwrite 
profitably in most - though certainly not all - future years. If we accomplish that, our float will be better than 
costfree. We will benefit just as we would if some party deposited $66 billion with us, paid us a fee for holding 
its money and then let us invest its funds for our own benefit. 

Let me emphasize again that costfree float is not an outcome to be expected for the P/C industry as a 
whole: In most years, industry premiums have been inadequate to cover claims plus expenses. Consequently, the 
industry's overall return on tangible equity has for many decades fallen far short of the average return realized by 
American industry, a sorry performance almost certain to continue. Berkshire's outstanding economics exist only 
because we have some terrific managers running some unusual businesses. We've already told you about GEICO, 
but we have two other very large operations, and a bevy of smaller ones as well, each a star in its own way. 

First off is the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group, run by Ajit Jain. Ajit insures risks that no one 
else has the desire or the capital to take on. His operation combines capacity, speed, decisiveness and, most 
importantly, brains in a manner that is unique in the insurance business. Yet he never exposes Berkshire to risks 
that are inappropriate in relation to our resources. Indeed, we are far more conservative than most large insurers 
in that respect. In the past year, Ajit has significantly increased his life reinsurance operation, developing annual 
premium volume of about $2 billion that will repeat for decades. 
From a standing start in 1985, Ajit has created an insurance business with float of $30 billion and 
significant underwriting profits, a feat that no CEO of any other insurer has come close to matching. By his 
accomplishments, he has added a great many billions of dollars to the value of Berkshire. Even kryptonite 
bounces off Ajit. 

We have another insurance powerhouse in General Re, managed by Tad Montross. 
At bottom, a sound insurance operation requires four disciplines: (1) An understanding of all exposures 
that might cause a policy to incur losses; (2) A conservative evaluation of the likelihood of any exposure actually 
causing a loss and the probable cost if it does; (3) The setting of a premium that will deliver a profit, on average, 
after both prospective loss costs and operating expenses are covered; and (4) The willingness to walk away if the 
appropriate premium can't be obtained. 
Many insurers pass the first three tests and flunk the fourth. The urgings of Wall Street, pressures from 
the agency force and brokers, or simply a refusal by a testosteronedriven CEO to accept shrinking volumes has 
led too many insurers to write business at inadequate prices. "The other guy is doing it so we must as well" spells 
trouble in any business, but none more so than insurance. 
Tad has observed all four of the insurance commandments, and it shows in his results. General Re's huge 
float has been better than costfree under his leadership, and we expect that, on average, it will continue to be. 
 
Finally, we own a group of smaller companies, most of them specializing in odd corners of the 
insurance world. In aggregate, their results have consistently been profitable and, as the table below shows, the 
float they provide us is substantial. Charlie and I treasure these companies and their managers. 
Here is the record of all four segments of our propertycasualty and life insurance businesses: 
Underwriting Profit Yearend Float 
(in millions) 

Among large insurance operations, Berkshire's impresses me as the best in the world. 

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing Operations 
Our activities in this part of Berkshire cover the waterfront. Let's look, though, at a summary balance 
sheet and earnings statement for the entire group. 
Balance Sheet 12/31/10 (in millions) 

This group of companies sells products ranging from lollipops to jet airplanes. Some of the businesses 
enjoy terrific economics, measured by earnings on unleveraged net tangible assets that run from 25% aftertax to 
more than 100%. Others produce good returns in the area of 1220%. Unfortunately, a few have very poor 
returns, a result of some serious mistakes I have made in my job of capital allocation. These errors came about 
because I misjudged either the competitive strength of the business I was purchasing or the future economics of 
the industry in which it operated. I try to look out ten or twenty years when making an acquisition, but sometimes 
my eyesight has been poor. 
Most of the companies in this section improved their earnings last year and four set records. Let's look 
first at the recordbreakers. 
. TTI, our electronic components distributor, had sales 21% above its previous high (recorded in 2008) 
and pretax earnings that topped its earlier record by 58%. Its sales gains spanned three continents, with 
North America at 16%, Europe at 26%, and Asia at 50%. The thousands of items TTI distributes are 
pedestrian, many selling for less than a dollar. The magic of TTI's exceptional performance is created 
by Paul Andrews, its CEO, and his associates.
12
. Forest River, our RV and boat manufacturer, had record sales of nearly $2 billion and record earnings 
as well. Forest River has 82 plants, and I have yet to visit one (or the home office, for that matter). 
There's no need; Pete Liegl, the company's CEO, runs a terrific operation. Come view his products at 
the annual meeting. Better yet, buy one. 
. CTB, our farmequipment company, again set an earnings record. I told you in the 2008 Annual Report 
about Vic Mancinelli, the company's CEO. He just keeps getting better. Berkshire paid $140 million 
for CTB in 2002. It has since paid us dividends of $160 million and eliminated $40 million of debt. 
Last year it earned $106 million pretax. Productivity gains have produced much of this increase. When 
we bought CTB, sales per employee were $189,365; now they are $405,878. 
. Would you believe shoes? H. H. Brown, run by Jim Issler and best known for its Born brand, set a new 
record for sales and earnings (helped by its selling 1,110 pairs of shoes at our annual meeting). Jim has 
brilliantly adapted to major industry changes. His work, I should mention, is overseen by Frank 
Rooney, 89, a superb businessman and still a dangerous fellow with whom to have a bet on the golf 
course. 
A huge story in this sector's yeartoyear improvement occurred at NetJets. I can't overstate the 
breadth and importance of Dave Sokol's achievements at this company, the leading provider of fractional 
ownership of jet airplanes. NetJets has long been an operational success, owning a 2010 market share five times 
that of its nearest competitor. Our overwhelming leadership stems from a wonderful team of pilots, mechanics 
and service personnel. This crew again did its job in 2010, with customer satisfaction, as delineated in our regular 
surveys, hitting new highs. 
Even though NetJets was consistently a runaway winner with customers, our financial results, since its 
acquisition in 1998, were a failure. In the 11 years through 2009, the company reported an aggregate pretax loss 
of $157 million, a figure that was far understated since borrowing costs at NetJets were heavily subsidized by its 
free use of Berkshire's credit. Had NetJets been operating on a standalone basis, its loss over the years would 
have been several hundreds of millions greater. 
We are now charging NetJets an appropriate fee for Berkshire's guarantee. Despite this fee (which 
came to $38 million in 2010), NetJets earned $207 million pretax in 2010, a swing of $918 million from 2009. 
Dave's quick restructuring of management and the company's rationalization of its purchasing and spending 
policies has ended the hemorrhaging of cash and turned what was Berkshire's only major business problem into a 
solidly profitable operation. 
Dave has meanwhile maintained NetJets' industryleading reputation for safety and service. In many 
important ways, our training and operational standards are considerably stronger than those required by the FAA. 
Maintaining topoftheline standards is the right thing to do, but I also have a selfish reason for championing this 
policy. My family and I have flown more than 5,000 hours on NetJets (that's equal to being airborne 24 hours a 
day for seven months) and will fly thousands of hours more in the future. We receive no special treatment and 
have used a random mix of at least 100 planes and 300 crews. Whichever the plane or crew, we always know we 
are flying with the besttrained pilots in private aviation. 
The largest earner in our manufacturing, service and retailing sector is Marmon, a collection of 130 
businesses. We will soon increase our ownership in this company to 80% by carrying out our scheduled purchase 
of 17% of its stock from the Pritzker family. The cost will be about $1.5 billion. We will then purchase the 
remaining Pritzker holdings in 2013 or 2014, whichever date is selected by the family. Frank Ptak runs Marmon 
wonderfully, and we look forward to 100% ownership. 
13
Next to Marmon, the two largest earners in this sector are Iscar and McLane. Both had excellent years. 
In 2010, Grady Rosier's McLane entered the wine and spirits distribution business to supplement its $32 billion 
operation as a distributor of food products, cigarettes, candy and sundries. In purchasing Empire Distributors, an 
operator in Georgia and North Carolina, we teamed up with David Kahn, the company's dynamic CEO. David is 
leading our efforts to expand geographically. By yearend he had already made his first acquisition, Horizon Wine 
and Spirits in Tennessee. 
At Iscar, profits were up 159% in 2010, and we may well surpass prerecession levels in 2011. Sales 
are improving throughout the world, particularly in Asia. Credit Eitan Wertheimer, Jacob Harpaz and Danny 
Goldman for an exceptional performance, one far superior to that of Iscar's main competitors. 
All that is good news. Our businesses related to home construction, however, continue to struggle. 
Johns Manville, MiTek, Shaw and Acme Brick have maintained their competitive positions, but their profits are 
far below the levels of a few years ago. Combined, these operations earned $362 million pretax in 2010 
compared to $1.3 billion in 2006, and their employment has fallen by about 9,400. 
A housing recovery will probably begin within a year or so. In any event, it is certain to occur at some 
point. Consequently: (1) At MiTek, we have made, or committed to, five bolton acquisitions during the past 
eleven months; (2) At Acme, we just recently acquired the leading manufacturer of brick in Alabama for 
$50 million; (3) Johns Manville is building a $55 million roofing membrane plant in Ohio, to be completed next 
year; and (4) Shaw will spend $200 million in 2011 on plant and equipment, all of it situated in America. These 
businesses entered the recession strong and will exit it stronger. At Berkshire, our time horizon is forever. 
Regulated, CapitalIntensive Businesses 
We have two very large businesses, BNSF and MidAmerican Energy, with important common 
characteristics that distinguish them from our many others. Consequently, we give them their own sector in this 
letter and split out their financial statistics in our GAAP balance sheet and income statement. 
A key characteristic of both companies is the huge investment they have in very longlived, regulated 
assets, with these funded by large amounts of longterm debt that is not guaranteed by Berkshire. Our credit is 
not needed: Both businesses have earning power that, even under very adverse business conditions, amply covers 
their interest requirements. For example, in recessionary 2010 with BNSF's car loadings far off peak levels, the 
company's interest coverage was 6:1. 
Both companies are heavily regulated, and both will have a neverending need to make major 
investments in plant and equipment. Both also need to provide efficient, customersatisfying service to earn the 
respect of their communities and regulators. In return, both need to be assured that they will be allowed to earn 
reasonable earnings on future capital investments. 
Earlier I explained just how important railroads are to our country's future. Rail moves 42% of 
America's intercity freight, measured by tonmiles, and BNSF moves more than any other railroad - about 28% 
of the industry total. A little math will tell you that more than 11% of all intercity tonmiles of freight in the U.S. 
is transported by BNSF. Given the shift of population to the West, our share may well inch higher. 
All of this adds up to a huge responsibility. We are a major and essential part of the American 
economy's circulatory system, obliged to constantly maintain and improve our 23,000 miles of track along with 
its ancillary bridges, tunnels, engines and cars. In carrying out this job, we must anticipate society's needs, not 
merely react to them. Fulfilling our societal obligation, we will regularly spend far more than our depreciation, 
with this excess amounting to $2 billion in 2011. I'm confident we will earn appropriate returns on our huge 
incremental investments. Wise regulation and wise investment are two sides of the same coin. 
At MidAmerican, we participate in a similar "social compact." We are expected to put up everincreasing 
sums to satisfy the future needs of our customers. If we meanwhile operate reliably and efficiently, we 
know that we will obtain a fair return on these investments. 
14
MidAmerican supplies 2.4 million customers in the U.S. with electricity, operating as the largest 
supplier in Iowa, Wyoming and Utah and as an important provider in other states as well. Our pipelines transport 
8% of the country's natural gas. Obviously, many millions of Americans depend on us every day. 
MidAmerican has delivered outstanding results for both its owners (Berkshire's interest is 89.8%) and its 
customers. Shortly after MidAmerican purchased Northern Natural Gas pipeline in 2002, that company's 
performance as a pipeline was rated dead last, 43 out of 43, by the leading authority in the field. In the most recent 
report published, Northern Natural was ranked second. The top spot was held by our other pipeline, Kern River. 
In its electric business, MidAmerican has a comparable record. Iowa rates have not increased since we 
purchased our operation there in 1999. During the same period, the other major electric utility in the state has 
raised prices more than 70% and now has rates far above ours. In certain metropolitan areas in which the two 
utilities operate side by side, electric bills of our customers run far below those of their neighbors. I am told that 
comparable houses sell at higher prices in these cities if they are located in our service area. 
MidAmerican will have 2,909 megawatts of wind generation in operation by the end of 2011, more 
than any other regulated electric utility in the country. The total amount that MidAmerican has invested or 
committed to wind is a staggering $5.4 billion. We can make this sort of investment because MidAmerican 
retains all of its earnings, unlike other utilities that generally pay out most of what they earn. 
As you can tell by now, I am proud of what has been accomplished for our society by Matt Rose at 
BNSF and by David Sokol and Greg Abel at MidAmerican. I am also both proud and grateful for what they have 
accomplished for Berkshire shareholders. Below are the relevant figures: 
MidAmerican Earnings (in millions) 
2010 2009 

Finance and Financial Products 
This, our smallest sector, includes two rental companies, XTRA (trailers) and CORT (furniture), and 
Clayton Homes, the country's leading producer and financer of manufactured homes. 
Both of our leasing businesses improved their performances last year, albeit from a very low base. 
XTRA increased the utilization of its equipment from 63% in 2009 to 75% in 2010, thereby raising pretax 
earnings to $35 million from $17 million in 2009. CORT experienced a pickup in business as the year progressed 
and also significantly tightened its operations. The combination increased its pretax results from a loss of 
$3 million in 2009 to $18 million of profit in 2010. 
At Clayton, we produced 23,343 homes, 47% of the industry's total of 50,046. Contrast this to the peak 
year of 1998, when 372,843 homes were manufactured. (We then had an industry share of 8%.) Sales would have 
been terrible last year under any circumstances, but the financing problems I commented upon in the 2009 report 
continue to exacerbate the distress. To explain: Homefinancing policies of our government, expressed through 
the loans found acceptable by FHA, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, favor sitebuilt homes and work to negate the 
price advantage that manufactured homes offer. 
We finance more manufacturedhome buyers than any other company. Our experience, therefore, 
should be instructive to those parties preparing to overhaul our country's homeloan practices. Let's take a look. 
Clayton owns 200,804 mortgages that it originated. (It also has some mortgage portfolios that it 
purchased.) At the origination of these contracts, the average FICO score of our borrowers was 648, and 47% 
were 640 or below. Your banker will tell you that people with such scores are generally regarded as questionable 
credits. 
Nevertheless, our portfolio has performed well during conditions of stress. Here's our loss experience 
during the last five years for originated loans: 
Year 
Net Losses as a Percentage 
of Average Loans 

Our borrowers get in trouble when they lose their jobs, have health problems, get divorced, etc. The 
recession has hit them hard. But they want to stay in their homes, and generally they borrowed sensible amounts 
in relation to their income. In addition, we were keeping the originated mortgages for our own account, which 
means we were not securitizing or otherwise reselling them. If we were stupid in our lending, we were going to 
pay the price. That concentrates the mind. 
If home buyers throughout the country had behaved like our buyers, America would not have had the 
crisis that it did. Our approach was simply to get a meaningful downpayment and gear fixed monthly payments 
to a sensible percentage of income. This policy kept Clayton solvent and also kept buyers in their homes. 
Home ownership makes sense for most Americans, particularly at today's lower prices and bargain 
interest rates. All things considered, the third best investment I ever made was the purchase of my home, though I 
would have made far more money had I instead rented and used the purchase money to buy stocks. (The two best 
investments were wedding rings.) For the $31,500 I paid for our house, my family and I gained 52 years of 
terrific memories with more to come. 
16

But a house can be a nightmare if the buyer's eyes are bigger than his wallet and if a lender - often 
protected by a government guarantee - facilitates his fantasy. Our country's social goal should not be to put 
families into the house of their dreams, but rather to put them into a house they can afford. 
Investments 
Below we show our common stock investments that at yearend had a market value of more than 
$1 billion. 

In our reported earnings we reflect only the dividends our portfolio companies pay us. Our share of the 
undistributed earnings of these investees, however, was more than $2 billion last year. These retained earnings 
are important. In our experience - and, for that matter, in the experience of investors over the past century - 
undistributed earnings have been either matched or exceeded by market gains, albeit in a highly irregular manner. 
(Indeed, sometimes the correlation goes in reverse. As one investor said in 2009: "This is worse than divorce. 
I've lost half my net worth - and I still have my wife.") In the future, we expect our market gains to eventually at 
least equal the earnings our investees retain.  
In our earlier estimate of Berkshire's normal earning power, we made three adjustments that relate to 
future investment income (but did not include anything for the undistributed earnings factor I have just 
described). 
The first adjustment was decidedly negative. Last year, we discussed five large fixedincome 
investments that have been contributing substantial sums to our reported earnings. One of these - our Swiss Re 
note - was redeemed in the early days of 2011, and two others - our Goldman Sachs and General Electric 
preferred stocks - are likely to be gone by yearend. General Electric is entitled to call our preferred in October 
and has stated its intention to do so. Goldman Sachs has the right to call our preferred on 30 days notice, but has 
been held back by the Federal Reserve (bless it!), which unfortunately will likely give Goldman the green light 
before long. 

All three of the companies redeeming must pay us a premium to do so - in aggregate about $1.4 billion - 
but all of the redemptions are nevertheless unwelcome. After they occur, our earning power will be significantly 
reduced. That's the bad news. 
There are two probable offsets. At yearend we held $38 billion of cash equivalents that have been 
earning a pittance throughout 2010. At some point, however, better rates will return. They will add at least 
$500 million - and perhaps much more - to our investment income. That sort of increase in moneymarket yields 
is unlikely to come soon. It is appropriate, nevertheless, for us to include improved rates in an estimate of 
"normal" earning power. Even before higher rates come about, furthermore, we could get lucky and find an 
opportunity to use some of our cash hoard at decent returns. That day can't come too soon for me: To update 
Aesop, a girl in a convertible is worth five in the phone book. 
In addition, dividends on our current common stock holdings will almost certainly increase. The largest 
gain is likely to come at Wells Fargo. The Federal Reserve, our friend in respect to Goldman Sachs, has frozen 
dividend levels at major banks, whether strong or weak, during the last two years. Wells Fargo, though 
consistently prospering throughout the worst of the recession and currently enjoying enormous financial strength 
and earning power, has therefore been forced to maintain an artificially low payout. (We don't fault the Fed: For 
various reasons, an acrosstheboard freeze made sense during the crisis and its immediate aftermath.) 
At some point, probably soon, the Fed's restrictions will cease. Wells Fargo can then reinstate the 
rational dividend policy that its owners deserve. At that time, we would expect our annual dividends from just 
this one security to increase by several hundreds of millions of dollars annually. 
Other companies we hold are likely to increase their dividends as well. CocaCola paid us $88 million 
in 1995, the year after we finished purchasing the stock. Every year since, Coke has increased its dividend. In 
2011, we will almost certainly receive $376 million from Coke, up $24 million from last year. Within ten years, I 
would expect that $376 million to double. By the end of that period, I wouldn't be surprised to see our share of 
Coke's annual earnings exceed 100% of what we paid for the investment. Time is the friend of the wonderful 
business. 
Overall, I believe our "normal" investment income will at least equal what we realized in 2010, though 
the redemptions I described will cut our take in 2011 and perhaps 2012 as well. 

Last summer, Lou Simpson told me he wished to retire. Since Lou was a mere 74 - an age Charlie and 
I regard as appropriate only for trainees at Berkshire - his call was a surprise. 
Lou joined GEICO as its investment manager in 1979, and his service to that company has been 
invaluable. In the 2004 Annual Report, I detailed his record with equities, and I have omitted updates only 
because his performance made mine look bad. Who needs that? 
Lou has never been one to advertise his talents. But I will: Simply put, Lou is one of the investment 
greats. We will miss him. 

Four years ago, I told you that we needed to add one or more younger investment managers to carry on 
when Charlie, Lou and I weren't around. At that time we had multiple outstanding candidates immediately 
available for my CEO job (as we do now), but we did not have backup in the investment area. 
It's easy to identify many investment managers with great recent records. But past results, though 
important, do not suffice when prospective performance is being judged. How the record has been achieved is 
crucial, as is the manager's understanding of - and sensitivity to - risk (which in no way should be measured by 
beta, the choice of too many academics). In respect to the risk criterion, we were looking for someone with a 
hardtoevaluate skill: the ability to anticipate the effects of economic scenarios not previously observed. Finally, 
we wanted someone who would regard working for Berkshire as far more than a job. 

When Charlie and I met Todd Combs, we knew he fit our requirements. Todd, as was the case with 
Lou, will be paid a salary plus a contingent payment based on his performance relative to the S&P. We have 
arrangements in place for deferrals and carryforwards that will prevent seesaw performance being met by 
undeserved payments. The hedgefund world has witnessed some terrible behavior by general partners who have 
received huge payouts on the upside and who then, when bad results occurred, have walked away rich, with their 
limited partners losing back their earlier gains. Sometimes these same general partners thereafter quickly started 
another fund so that they could immediately participate in future profits without having to overcome their past 
losses. Investors who put money with such managers should be labeled patsies, not partners. 
As long as I am CEO, I will continue to manage the great majority of Berkshire's holdings, both bonds 
and equities. Todd initially will manage funds in the range of one to three billion dollars, an amount he can reset 
annually. His focus will be equities but he is not restricted to that form of investment. (Fund consultants like to 
require style boxes such as "longshort," "macro," "international equities." At Berkshire our only style box is 
"smart.") 
Over time, we may add one or two investment managers if we find the right individuals. Should we do 
that, we will probably have 80% of each manager's performance compensation be dependent on his or her own 
portfolio and 20% on that of the other manager(s). We want a compensation system that pays off big for 
individual success but that also fosters cooperation, not competition. 
When Charlie and I are no longer around, our investment manager(s) will have responsibility for the 
entire portfolio in a manner then set by the CEO and Board of Directors. Because good investors bring a useful 
perspective to the purchase of businesses, we would expect them to be consulted - but not to have a vote - on the 
wisdom of possible acquisitions. In the end, of course, the Board will make the call on any major acquisition. 
One footnote: When we issued a press release about Todd's joining us, a number of commentators 
pointed out that he was "littleknown" and expressed puzzlement that we didn't seek a "bigname." I wonder 
how many of them would have known of Lou in 1979, Ajit in 1985, or, for that matter, Charlie in 1959. Our goal 
was to find a 2yearold Secretariat, not a 10yearold Seabiscuit. (Whoops - that may not be the smartest 
metaphor for an 80yearold CEO to use.) 
Derivatives 
Two years ago, in the 2008 Annual Report, I told you that Berkshire was a party to 251 derivatives 
contracts (other than those used for operations at our subsidiaries, such as MidAmerican, and the few left over at 
Gen Re). Today, the comparable number is 203, a figure reflecting both a few additions to our portfolio and the 
unwinding or expiration of some contracts. 
Our continuing positions, all of which I am personally responsible for, fall largely into two categories. 
We view both categories as engaging us in insurancelike activities in which we receive premiums for assuming 
risks that others wish to shed. Indeed, the thought processes we employ in these derivatives transactions are 
identical to those we use in our insurance business. You should also understand that we get paid upfront when 
we enter into the contracts and therefore run no counterparty risk. That's important. 
Our first category of derivatives consists of a number of contracts, written in 20042008, that required 
payments by us if there were bond defaults by companies included in certain highyield indices. With minor 
exceptions, we were exposed to these risks for five years, with each contract covering 100 companies. 
In aggregate, we received premiums of $3.4 billion for these contracts. When I originally told you in 
our 2007 Annual Report about them, I said that I expected the contracts would deliver us an "underwriting 
profit," meaning that our losses would be less than the premiums we received. In addition, I said we would 
benefit from the use of float. 

Subsequently, as you know too well, we encountered both a financial panic and a severe recession. A 
number of the companies in the highyield indices failed, which required us to pay losses of $2.5 billion. Today, 
however, our exposure is largely behind us because most of our higherrisk contracts have expired. Consequently, it 
appears almost certain that we will earn an underwriting profit as we originally anticipated. In addition, we have had 
the use of interestfree float that averaged about $2 billion over the life of the contracts. In short, we charged the 
right premium, and that protected us when business conditions turned terrible three years ago. 
Our other large derivatives position - whose contracts go by the name of "equity puts" - involves 
insurance we wrote for parties wishing to protect themselves against a possible decline in equity prices in the 
U.S., U.K., Europe and Japan. These contracts are tied to various equity indices, such as the S&P 500 in the U.S. 
and the FTSE 100 in the U.K. In the 20042008 period, we received $4.8 billion of premiums for 47 of these 
contracts, most of which ran for 15 years. On these contracts, only the price of the indices on the termination date 
counts: No payments can be required before then. 
As a first step in updating you about these contracts, I can report that late in 2010, at the instigation of 
our counterparty, we unwound eight contracts, all of them due between 2021 and 2028. We had originally 
received $647 million in premiums for these contracts, and the unwinding required us to pay $425 million. 
Consequently, we realized a gain of $222 million and also had the interestfree and unrestricted use of that 
$647 million for about three years. 
Those 2010 transactions left us with 39 equity put contracts remaining on our books at yearend. On 
these, at their initiation, we received premiums of $4.2 billion. 
The future of these contracts is, of course, uncertain. But here is one perspective on them. If the prices 
of the relevant indices are the same at the contract expiration dates as these prices were on December 31, 2010 - 
and foreign exchange rates are unchanged - we would owe $3.8 billion on expirations occurring from 2018 to 
2026. You can call this amount "settlement value." 
On our yearend balance sheet, however, we carry the liability for those remaining equity puts at 
$6.7 billion. In other words, if the prices of the relevant indices remain unchanged from that date, we will record 
a $2.9 billion gain in the years to come, that being the difference between the liability figure of $6.7 billion and 
the settlement value of $3.8 billion. I believe that equity prices will very likely increase and that our liability will 
fall significantly between now and settlement date. If so, our gain from this point will be even greater. But that, 
of course, is far from a sure thing. 
What is sure is that we will have the use of our remaining "float" of $4.2 billion for an average of about 
10 more years. (Neither this float nor that arising from the highyield contracts is included in the insurance float 
figure of $66 billion.) Since money is fungible, think of a portion of these funds as contributing to the purchase 
of BNSF. 
As I have told you before, almost all of our derivatives contracts are free of any obligation to post 
collateral - a fact that cut the premiums we could otherwise have charged. But that fact also left us feeling 
comfortable during the financial crisis, allowing us in those days to commit to some advantageous purchases. 
Foregoing some additional derivatives premiums proved to be well worth it. 
On Reporting and Misreporting: The Numbers That Count and Those That Don't 
Earlier in this letter, I pointed out some numbers that Charlie and I find useful in valuing Berkshire and 
measuring its progress. 
Let's focus here on a number we omitted, but which many in the media feature above all others: net 
income. Important though that number may be at most companies, it is almost always meaningless at Berkshire. 
Regardless of how our businesses might be doing, Charlie and I could - quite legally - cause net income in any 
given period to be almost any number we would like. 
20
We have that flexibility because realized gains or losses on investments go into the net income figure, 
whereas unrealized gains (and, in most cases, losses) are excluded. For example, imagine that Berkshire had a 
$10 billion increase in unrealized gains in a given year and concurrently had $1 billion of realized losses. Our net 
income - which would count only the loss - would be reported as less than our operating income. If we had 
meanwhile realized gains in the previous year, headlines might proclaim that our earnings were down X% when 
in reality our business might be much improved. 
If we really thought net income important, we could regularly feed realized gains into it simply because 
we have a huge amount of unrealized gains upon which to draw. Rest assured, though, that Charlie and I have 
never sold a security because of the effect a sale would have on the net income we were soon to report. We both 
have a deep disgust for "game playing" with numbers, a practice that was rampant throughout corporate America 
in the 1990s and still persists, though it occurs less frequently and less blatantly than it used to. 
Operating earnings, despite having some shortcomings, are in general a reasonable guide as to how our 
businesses are doing. Ignore our net income figure, however. Regulations require that we report it to you. But if 
you find reporters focusing on it, that will speak more to their performance than ours. 
Both realized and unrealized gains and losses are fully reflected in the calculation of our book value. 
Pay attention to the changes in that metric and to the course of our operating earnings, and you will be on the 
right track. 

As a p.s., I can't resist pointing out just how capricious reported net income can be. Had our equity puts 
had a termination date of June 30, 2010, we would have been required to pay $6.4 billion to our counterparties at 
that date. Security prices then generally rose in the next quarter, a move that brought the corresponding figure 
down to $5.8 billion on September 30th. Yet the BlackScholes formula that we use in valuing these contracts 
required us to increase our balancesheet liability during this period from $8.9 billion to $9.6 billion, a change 
that, after the effect of tax accruals, reduced our net income for the quarter by $455 million. 
Both Charlie and I believe that BlackScholes produces wildly inappropriate values when applied to 
longdated options. We set out one absurd example in these pages two years ago. More tangibly, we put our 
money where our mouth was by entering into our equity put contracts. By doing so, we implicitly asserted that 
the BlackScholes calculations used by our counterparties or their customers were faulty. 
We continue, nevertheless, to use that formula in presenting our financial statements. BlackScholes is 
the accepted standard for option valuation - almost all leading business schools teach it - and we would be 
accused of shoddy accounting if we deviated from it. Moreover, we would present our auditors with an 
insurmountable problem were we to do that: They have clients who are our counterparties and who use Black 
Scholes values for the same contracts we hold. It would be impossible for our auditors to attest to the accuracy of 
both their values and ours were the two far apart. 
Part of the appeal of BlackScholes to auditors and regulators is that it produces a precise number. 
Charlie and I can't supply one of those. We believe the true liability of our contracts to be far lower than that 
calculated by BlackScholes, but we can't come up with an exact figure - anymore than we can come up with a 
precise value for GEICO, BNSF, or for Berkshire Hathaway itself. Our inability to pinpoint a number doesn't 
bother us: We would rather be approximately right than precisely wrong. 
John Kenneth Galbraith once slyly observed that economists were most economical with ideas: They 
made the ones learned in graduate school last a lifetime. University finance departments often behave similarly. 
Witness the tenacity with which almost all clung to the theory of efficient markets throughout the 1970s and 
1980s, dismissively calling powerful facts that refuted it "anomalies." (I always love explanations of that kind: 
The Flat Earth Society probably views a ship's circling of the globe as an annoying, but inconsequential, 
anomaly.) 

Academics' current practice of teaching BlackScholes as revealed truth needs reexamination. For that 
matter, so does the academic's inclination to dwell on the valuation of options. You can be highly successful as 
an investor without having the slightest ability to value an option. What students should be learning is how to 
value a business. That's what investing is all about. 
Life and Debt 
The fundamental principle of auto racing is that to finish first, you must first finish. That dictum is 
equally applicable to business and guides our every action at Berkshire. 
Unquestionably, some people have become very rich through the use of borrowed money. However, 
that's also been a way to get very poor. When leverage works, it magnifies your gains. Your spouse thinks you're 
clever, and your neighbors get envious. But leverage is addictive. Once having profited from its wonders, very 
few people retreat to more conservative practices. And as we all learned in third grade - and some relearned in 
2008 - any series of positive numbers, however impressive the numbers may be, evaporates when multiplied by a 
single zero. History tells us that leverage all too often produces zeroes, even when it is employed by very smart 
people. 
Leverage, of course, can be lethal to businesses as well. Companies with large debts often assume that 
these obligations can be refinanced as they mature. That assumption is usually valid. Occasionally, though, either 
because of companyspecific problems or a worldwide shortage of credit, maturities must actually be met by 
payment. For that, only cash will do the job. 
Borrowers then learn that credit is like oxygen. When either is abundant, its presence goes unnoticed. 
When either is missing, that's all that is noticed. Even a short absence of credit can bring a company to its knees. 
In September 2008, in fact, its overnight disappearance in many sectors of the economy came dangerously close 
to bringing our entire country to its knees. 
Charlie and I have no interest in any activity that could pose the slightest threat to Berkshire's wellbeing. 
(With our having a combined age of 167, starting over is not on our bucket list.) We are forever conscious 
of the fact that you, our partners, have entrusted us with what in many cases is a major portion of your savings. In 
addition, important philanthropy is dependent on our prudence. Finally, many disabled victims of accidents 
caused by our insureds are counting on us to deliver sums payable decades from now. It would be irresponsible 
for us to risk what all these constituencies need just to pursue a few points of extra return. 
A little personal history may partially explain our extreme aversion to financial adventurism. I didn't 
meet Charlie until he was 35, though he grew up within 100 yards of where I have lived for 52 years and also 
attended the same innercity public high school in Omaha from which my father, wife, children and two 
grandchildren graduated. Charlie and I did, however, both work as young boys at my grandfather's grocery store, 
though our periods of employment were separated by about five years. My grandfather's name was Ernest, and 
perhaps no man was more aptly named. No one worked for Ernest, even as a stock boy, without being shaped by 
the experience. 
On the facing page you can read a letter sent in 1939 by Ernest to his youngest son, my Uncle Fred. 
Similar letters went to his other four children. I still have the letter sent to my Aunt Alice, which I found - along 
with $1,000 of cash - when, as executor of her estate, I opened her safe deposit box in 1970. 
Ernest never went to business school - he never in fact finished high school - but he understood the 
importance of liquidity as a condition for assured survival. At Berkshire, we have taken his $1,000 solution a bit 
further and have pledged that we will hold at least $10 billion of cash, excluding that held at our regulated utility 
and railroad businesses. Because of that commitment, we customarily keep at least $20 billion on hand so that we 
can both withstand unprecedented insurance losses (our largest to date having been about $3 billion from Katrina, 
the insurance industry's most expensive catastrophe) and quickly seize acquisition or investment opportunities, 
even during times of financial turmoil. 

We keep our cash largely in U.S. Treasury bills and avoid other shortterm securities yielding a few 
more basis points, a policy we adhered to long before the frailties of commercial paper and money market funds 
became apparent in September 2008. We agree with investment writer Ray DeVoe's observation, "More money 
has been lost reaching for yield than at the point of a gun." At Berkshire, we don't rely on bank lines, and we 
don't enter into contracts that could require postings of collateral except for amounts that are tiny in relation to 
our liquid assets. 
Furthermore, not a dime of cash has left Berkshire for dividends or share repurchases during the past 
40 years. Instead, we have retained all of our earnings to strengthen our business, a reinforcement now running 
about $1 billion per month. Our net worth has thus increased from $48 million to $157 billion during those four 
decades and our intrinsic value has grown far more. No other American corporation has come close to building 
up its financial strength in this unrelenting way. 
By being so cautious in respect to leverage, we penalize our returns by a minor amount. Having loads of 
liquidity, though, lets us sleep well. Moreover, during the episodes of financial chaos that occasionally erupt in our 
economy, we will be equipped both financially and emotionally to play offense while others scramble for survival. 
That's what allowed us to invest $15.6 billion in 25 days of panic following the Lehman bankruptcy in 2008. 
The Annual Meeting 
The annual meeting will be held on Saturday, April 30th. Carrie Kizer from our home office will be the 
ringmaster, and her theme this year is Planes, Trains and Automobiles. This gives NetJets, BNSF and BYD a 
chance to show off. 
As always, the doors will open at the Qwest Center at 7 a.m., and a new Berkshire movie will be shown at 
8:30. At 9:30 we will go directly to the questionandanswer period, which (with a break for lunch at the Qwest's 
stands) will last until 3:30. After a short recess, Charlie and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:45. If you decide 
to leave during the day's question periods, please do so while Charlie is talking. (Act fast; he can be terse.) 
The best reason to exit, of course, is to shop. We will help you do that by filling the 194,300squarefoot 
hall that adjoins the meeting area with products from dozens of Berkshire subsidiaries. Last year, you did 
your part, and most locations racked up record sales. In a ninehour period, we sold 1,053 pairs of Justin boots, 
12,416 pounds of See's candy, 8,000 Dairy Queen Blizzards. and 8,800 Quikut knives (that's 16 knives per 
minute). But you can do better. Remember: Anyone who says money can't buy happiness simply hasn't learned 
where to shop. 
GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of 
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a 
shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 44 of the 51 jurisdictions in which we 
operate. (One supplemental point: The discount is not additive if you qualify for another, such as that given 
certain groups.) Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save you money. For 
at least half of you, I believe we can. 
Be sure to visit the Bookworm. It will carry more than 60 books and DVDs, including the Chinese 
language edition of Poor Charlie's Almanack, the everpopular book about my partner. So what if you can't read 
Chinese? Just buy a copy and carry it around; it will make you look urbane and erudite. Should you need to ship 
your book purchases, a shipping service will be available nearby. 
If you are a big spender - or merely a gawker - visit Elliott Aviation on the east side of the Omaha 
airport between noon and 5:00 p.m. on Saturday. There we will have a fleet of NetJets aircraft that will get your 
pulse racing. Come by bus; leave by private jet. 
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the 
credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car reservations, 
we have again signed up American Express (8007996634) to give you special help. Carol Pedersen, who 
handles these matters, does a terrific job for us each year, and I thank her for it. Hotel rooms can be hard to find, 
but work with Carol and you will get one. 
Airlines have often jacked up prices - sometimes dramatically so - for the Berkshire weekend. If you 
are coming from far away, compare the cost of flying to Kansas City versus Omaha. The drive is about 21.2 hours 
and it may be that you can save significant money, particularly if you had planned to rent a car in Omaha. 
At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, we 
will again be having "Berkshire Weekend" discount pricing. Last year the store did $33.3 million of business 
during its annual meeting sale, a volume that - as far as I know - exceeds the oneweek total of any retail store 
anyplace. To obtain the Berkshire discount, you must make your purchases between Tuesday, April 26th and 
Monday, May 2nd inclusive, and also present your meeting credential. The period's special pricing will even 
apply to the products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against 
discounting but which, in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. 
We appreciate their cooperation. NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 10 a.m. 
to 6 p.m. on Sunday. On Saturday this year, from 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m., NFM is having a picnic to which you are 
all invited. 
At Borsheims, we will again have two shareholderonly events. The first will be a cocktail reception 
from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Friday, April 29th. The second, the main gala, will be held on Sunday, May 1st , from 
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. On Saturday, we will be open until 6 p.m. On Sunday, around 1 p.m., I will be at Borsheims 
with a smile and a shoeshine, selling jewelry just as I sold men's shirts at J.C. Penney's 63 years ago. 
I've told Susan Jacques, Borsheims' CEO, that I'm still a hotshot salesman. But I see doubt in her eyes. 
So cut loose and buy something from me for your wife or sweetheart (presumably the same person). Make me 
look good.
We will have huge crowds at Borsheims throughout the weekend. For your convenience, therefore, 
shareholder prices will be available from Monday, April 25th through Saturday, May 7th. During that period, 
please identify yourself as a shareholder by presenting your meeting credentials or a brokerage statement that 
shows you are a Berkshire shareholder. 
On Sunday, in the mall outside of Borsheims, a blindfolded Patrick Wolff, twice U.S. chess champion, 
will take on all comers - who will have their eyes wide open - in groups of six. Nearby, Norman Beck, a 
remarkable magician from Dallas, will bewilder onlookers. Additionally, we will have Bob Hamman and Sharon 
Osberg, two of the world's top bridge experts, available to play bridge with our shareholders on Sunday 
afternoon.
Gorat's and Piccolo's will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on Sunday, May 1st. 
Both will be serving until 10 p.m., with Gorat's opening at 1 p.m. and Piccolo's opening at 4 p.m. These 
restaurants are my favorites and - still being a growing boy - I will eat at both of them on Sunday evening. 
Remember: To make a reservation at Gorat's, call 4025513733 on April 1st (but not before) and at Piccolo's 
call 4023429038. 
We will again have the same three financial journalists lead the questionandanswer period, asking 
Charlie and me questions that shareholders have submitted to them by email. The journalists and their email 
addresses are: Carol Loomis, of Fortune, who may be emailed at cloomis@fortunemail.com; Becky Quick, of 
CNBC, at BerkshireQuestions@cnbc.com, and Andrew Ross Sorkin, of The New York Times, at 
arsorkin@nytimes.com. 
From the questions submitted, each journalist will choose the dozen or so he or she decides are the 
most interesting and important. The journalists have told me your question has the best chance of being selected 
if you keep it concise, avoid sending it in at the last moment, make it Berkshirerelated and include no more than 
two questions in any email you send them. (In your email, let the journalist know if you would like your name 
mentioned if your question is selected.) 
Neither Charlie nor I will get so much as a clue about the questions to be asked. We know the 
journalists will pick some tough ones, and that's the way we like it. 

We will again have a drawing at 8:15 a.m. on Saturday at each of 13 microphones for those 
shareholders wishing to ask questions themselves. At the meeting, I will alternate the questions asked by the 
journalists with those from the winning shareholders. We hope to answer at least 60 questions. From our 
standpoint, the more the better. Our goal, which we pursue both through these annual letters and by our meeting 
discussions, is to give you a better understanding of the business that you own. 

For good reason, I regularly extol the accomplishments of our operating managers. Equally important, 
however, are the 20 men and women who work with me at our corporate office (all on one floor, which is the 
way we intend to keep it!). 
This group efficiently deals with a multitude of SEC and other regulatory requirements, files a 14,097 
page Federal income tax return along with state and foreign returns, responds to countless shareholder and media 
inquiries, gets out the annual report, prepares for the country's largest annual meeting, coordinates the Board's 
activities - and the list goes on and on. 
They handle all of these business tasks cheerfully and with unbelievable efficiency, making my life 
easy and joyful. Their efforts go beyond activities strictly related to Berkshire: They deal with 48 universities 
(selected from 200 applicants) who will send students to Omaha this school year for a day with me and also 
handle all kinds of requests that I receive, arrange my travel, and even get me hamburgers for lunch. No CEO has 
it better. 
This home office crew has my deepest thanks and deserves yours as well. Come to our Woodstock for 
Capitalism on April 30th and tell them so. 
February 26, 2011 Warren E. Buffett 
Chairman of the Board 

Memo 
To: Berkshire Hathaway Managers ("The AllStars") 
cc: Berkshire Directors 
From: Warren E. Buffett 
Date: July 26, 2010 
This is my biennial letter to reemphasize Berkshire's top priority and to get your help on 
succession planning (yours, not mine!). 
The priority is that all of us continue to zealously guard Berkshire's reputation. We can't be 
perfect but we can try to be. As I've said in these memos for more than 25 years: "We can afford to lose 
money - even a lot of money. But we can't afford to lose reputation - even a shred of reputation." We 
must continue to measure every act against not only what is legal but also what we would be happy to have 
written about on the front page of a national newspaper in an article written by an unfriendly but intelligent 
reporter. 
Sometimes your associates will say "Everybody else is doing it." This rationale is almost always 
a bad one if it is the main justification for a business action. It is totally unacceptable when evaluating a 
moral decision. Whenever somebody offers that phrase as a rationale, in effect they are saying that they 
can't come up with a good reason. If anyone gives this explanation, tell them to try using it with a reporter 
or a judge and see how far it gets them. 
If you see anything whose propriety or legality causes you to hesitate, be sure to give me a call. 
However, it's very likely that if a given course of action evokes such hesitation, it's too close to the line 
and should be abandoned. There's plenty of money to be made in the center of the court. If it's 
questionable whether some action is close to the line, just assume it is outside and forget it. 
As a corollary, let me know promptly if there's any significant bad news. I can handle bad news 
but I don't like to deal with it after it has festered for awhile. A reluctance to face up immediately to bad 
news is what turned a problem at Salomon from one that could have easily been disposed of into one that 
almost caused the demise of a firm with 8,000 employees. 

Somebody is doing something today at Berkshire that you and I would be unhappy about if we 
knew of it. That's inevitable: We now employ more than 250,000 people and the chances of that number 
getting through the day without any bad behavior occurring is nil. But we can have a huge effect in 
minimizing such activities by jumping on anything immediately when there is the slightest odor of 
impropriety. Your attitude on such matters, expressed by behavior as well as words, will be the most 
important factor in how the culture of your business develops. Culture, more than rule books, determines 
how an organization behaves. 
In other respects, talk to me about what is going on as little or as much as you wish. Each of you 
does a firstclass job of running your operation with your own individual style and you don't need me to 
help. The only items you need to clear with me are any changes in postretirement benefits and any 
unusually large capital expenditures or acquisitions. 
I need your help in respect to the question of succession. I'm not looking for any of you to retire 
and I hope you all live to 100. (In Charlie's case, 110.) But just in case you don't, please send me a letter 
(at home if you wish) giving your recommendation as who should take over tomorrow if you should 
become incapacitated overnight. These letters will be seen by no one but me unless I'm no longer CEO, in 
which case my successor will need the information. Please summarize the strengths and weaknesses of 
your primary candidate as well as any possible alternates you may wish to include. Most of you have 
participated in this exercise in the past and others have offered your ideas verbally. However, it's 
important to me to get a periodic update, and now that we have added so many businesses, I need to have 
your thoughts in writing rather than trying to carry them around in my memory. Of course, there are a few 
operations that are run by two or more of you - such as the Blumkins, the Merschmans, the pair at Applied 
Underwriters, etc. - and in these cases, just forget about this item. Your note can be short, informal, 
handwritten, etc. Just mark it "Personal for Warren." 
Thanks for your help on all of this. And thanks for the way you run your businesses. You make 
my job easy. 

